






Office of Undergraduate Admissions | Freshman Applicants





































Skip to main content










Undergraduate  Admissions




















Visit UMD





Apply Now





Connect





Search







Academics 







All Programs


Colleges & Schools




Limited Enrollment Programs




LEP Admission for Current Students







        Want more information about our majors?
      

        Academics
      






Student Life






        Want to learn more about life as a Terp?
      

        Student Life
      



Housing & Dining


Student Support & Safety


Get Involved on Campus


Find Your Community







How To Apply







Freshman Applicants


Transfer Applicants




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program FAQs






International Applicants




English Language Proficiency
Obtaining a Visa
Financial Certification




Shady Grove Applicants




Shady Grove Terp Transfer Partnership






Application Deadlines


Admission Review Process & Factors


Application FAQs




Freshman Application FAQs
Transfer Application FAQ
Essay Questions
Submitting Documents







        Ready to apply?
      

        How to Apply
      






Tuition & Aid






        Need more information on cost of attendance at UMD,  financing your education and merit scholarships?
      

        Tuition & Aid
      



Cost of Attendance


Freshman Merit Scholarships


Transfer Merit Scholarships




Frederick Douglass Scholarship




Office of Student Financial Aid



























            Freshman Applicants
          

All the information you need, in one place, to apply to the University of Maryland (UMD) as a freshman.


Apply Now
Start your UMD application








Home

        Freshman Applicants
      








APPLY AS A FRESHMAN






If you are a high school student or a student with fewer than 12 semester hours or 18 quarter hours of university-level credit beyond secondary school, you should apply as a freshman applicant.
Below you will find information on freshman application requirements and deadlines, a complete list of required application materials and more.









              Applicant Requirements
            

As prescribed by the Board of Regents, the university expects you, at a minimum, to have completed the following coursework by high school graduation.
The most competitive freshman applicants exceed these minimum requirements, earning a strong A-/B+ or better average in their high school coursework while taking several honors and/or Advanced Placement or International Baccalaureate courses and additional academic electives.




      4

              




      Years of English
    



      2

              




      Years of foreign language
    



      3

              




      Years of history or social science
    



      3

              




      Years of science in at least 2 different areas
    

        With at least 2 lab experiences
      



      4

              




      4 Years of math, including Algebra I, Geometry & Algebra II
    

        If you complete Algebra II prior to your final year, you must complete the 4-year math requirement by taking a course that utilizes non-trivial algebra, such as Trigonometry, Precalculus, Calculus, Statistics, College Algebra.
      













      Choosing a Major
    

Whether you know exactly what you want to study or are still figuring it out, we encourage you to explore UMD's academic programs. As you explore you may see that some of our majors are considered Limited Enrollment Programs (LEP). These programs have limited space and, therefore, have more competitive admission criteria.
On the UMD application, you'll select a preferred major. This information will not impact whether or not you are admissible to the university. If you selected an LEP, you will also be reviewed by the specific program to determine admission to your preferred major.
While most students are admitted to their preferred major, some LEP applicants may not be. Students who are undecided or undeclared (working on getting into an LEP) will work with Letters & Sciences advisors to explore their interests or complete LEP gateway requirements.
























        Benefits of Applying Early Action
      

We strongly encourage you to apply early action to receive priority consideration for admission, merit-based scholarships and invitations to special programs. UMD's November 1 early action deadline is non-binding and students who submit a completed application by this date will receive an admission decision by February 1. By applying for admission to the fall semester, you will also be automatically considered for admission to the spring semester.


View All Application Deadlines
View All Application Deadlines




        Application Platforms
      

Freshman students can apply to UMD using either of the following platforms:
Common AppStandOut Admissions Network
The application platform you choose will not make a difference on how your application will be reviewed. Choose the platform you are comfortable using.


Apply Now
Start your UMD application









      Application Checklist
    





Utilize our application checklist to ensure you're submitting all required freshman application materials.






Before you get started, consider the following questions:Are you an international student? | If you are a non-U.S. citizen or non-permanent U.S. resident you apply as an international applicant.Do you need to provide proof of English proficiency? | If English is not your native language, regardless of your citizenship, or if you have taken English Second Language courses in high school, you must provide verification of your proficiency in English.Do you have non-U.S. academic records? | If you have non-U.S. academic records for post-secondary/university work, please review our international applicant requirements for instructions on submitting these records.









1




            Completed online application
          

The freshman application can be submitted online via the Common App or StandOut Admissions Network. The online application only needs to be submitted once, so choose the platform you are most comfortable using.
As part of the online application you will be required to submit a(n):
Essay | This is your opportunity to share your personality and experiences with the Admission Committee. Get inspired by one of our essay questions.
Activities and awards list or resume | Tell us how you spend your time outside the classroom! Please start by sharing the two experiences outside of academics that are most important to you. Whether community involvement, the arts, sports, work experience, research opportunities, family involvements or other activities and hobbies, you should share only what has been particularly meaningful (up to a maximum of eight).
Nonrefundable application fee of $75 | When submitting your application you will be required to pay a $75 application fee on our secure website with a credit card unless you have received a fee waiver. Fee waivers must be submitted prior to application submission for consideration. We cannot accept cash or check payments.






2




            Two letters of recommendation
          

Two letters of recommendation are required: one from your school counselor and one from a teacher. Recommendations must be sent to us directly from the recommender. Learn how recommendation letters can be submitted on our Submitting Documents page.






3




            Official copy of your high school transcripts
          

Each high school you've attended must submit an official copy of your high school transcript(s) listing all courses you attempted/completed. Learn how transcripts can be submitted on our Submitting Documents page.






4




            Official copy of your college transcripts (if necessary)
          

If you have completed any collegiate coursework, each institution you've attended must submit an official copy of your college transcripts listing all courses you attempted/completed. Learn how transcripts can be submitted on our Submitting Documents page.
If you have non-U.S. academic records for post-secondary work, please review our international applicant requirements as they might apply to you.






5




            Official standardized test scores (optional)
          

UMD is currently test-optional through to the Spring and Fall 2025 application cycles. Students can choose whether or not to submit SAT/ACT scores with their application. As part of the online application, you will be able to indicate your test-optional status. If you choose to include your test scores, learn how to submit them on our Submitting Documents page.
If you would like to receive credit toward your degree for successfully completing Advanced Placement (AP), International Baccalaureate (IB), A/AS level examinations or certain other standard exams, you must submit those official scores upon receiving an offer of admission.






6




            School of Music application (School of Music applicants only)
          

In addition to the above items, students seeking enrollment into the School of Music must submit an online application supplement and audition. These items will only be used to determine your eligibility for admission into the School of Music and will not be used in the review of your eligibility for admission to UMD.












              Making Sure Your UMD Application is Complete
            

Applications are considered complete when the online application and all required documents have been submitted electronically or postmarked by the appropriate deadline. It is your responsibility to confirm receipt of all materials.
To do so, you will need to create a Terps Application Portal (TAP) account. You'll receive an email with instructions on how to create a TAP account within two business days of submitting your online application.Through your TAP account, you can:
Track your application status.Confirm receipt of required materials.Receive your admission decision when it becomes available.
Keep in mind: It may take up to 10 business days for recently submitted materials to be listed as received within TAP














        Resources
      




                Application FAQs
              

If questions come up as you're filling out the UMD application, be sure to reference our frequently asked questions. We've gathered answers about the application platforms, required materials, what to do after you've applied, and more.


Review Application FAQs
Review Application FAQs













                Submitting Documents
              

Find details on the best way to submit all of your required application materials.


Submitting Documents
Learn more about how to submit application materials













                Admission Review Process & Factors
              

Familiarize yourself with our holistic review process and the many factors we consider when reviewing applications.


Admission Review Process & Factors




















      There is a lot more to learn about UMD, so let's stay in touch!
    






Join Our Mailing List







Connect

















              Undergraduate Admissions
            

                  Mitchell Building
                

                  7999 Regents Dr.
                

                  College Park, MD 20742
                


1-800-422-5867
ApplyMaryland@umd.edu



























Majors & Minors


Student Life


Admissions Requirements


Application Deadlines
Application Deadlines


Tuition & Aid




              Information For:
            

Prospective Students


Parents & Families


Counselors & Advisors
Counselors & Advisors


Admitted Students










Visit UMD






Apply Now






Connect









umd.edu


Privacy Policy


Web Accessibility


        © 2023 UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND
      









