









Minor in Nuclear Engineering | Department of Mechanical Engineering















Skip to main content

Shape Copy 6Shape Copy 18ShapeShapenext month copynext month


A. James Clark School of Engineering, University of Maryland
Mobile Navigation Trigger








Search this site for:








Home



Main Menu





Mobile Navigation Trigger Reverse





eng.umd.edu

Contact

Apply

Give

Recruit





About


Mission

Faculty and Staff

Visiting Committee



Undergraduate


Degrees


Bachelor of Science

Minor in Nuclear Engineering

Combined B.S/M.S. Program



Prospective Students


First Year Applicants

Transfer Applicants

Distance Programs

Southern Maryland Program

Keystone Program

Why Choose ME

Visit Us

Financial Aid



Current Students


Advising & Support


Courses

Required Courses

Technical Electives

Concentration Areas

Course Maps



Curriculum

Study Abroad

Student Groups

Student Competitions

Scholarships

Awards

Commencement



Accreditation



Graduate


Degrees


M.S. in Mechanical Engineering

M.S. in Reliability Engineering

M. Eng. in Mechanical Engineering

M. Eng. in Reliability Engineering

Doctorate of Philosophy

Ph.D. in Reliability Engineering



Prospective Students


Admissions

International Applicants



Current Students


Advising & Support


International Students

Courses

Graduate Program Forms



Graduate Student Council

Scholarships & Fellowships



Fellowships and Scholarships



Research


Partnerships & Initiatives

Research Centers & Labs

Research News



Alumni & Industry


Alumni Community

Industry Sponsors

Partner with Mechanical Engineering

Short Courses



News


E-Newsletter

METRICS Magazine

Student Stories

Photos









eng.umd.edu

Contact

Apply

Give

Recruit





Faculty Directory

Staff Directory

Careers

Media

Facilities

ClarkNet




Facebook
Twitter
Youtube
Linkedin

















HomeUndergraduateDegreesMinor in Nuclear Engineering 
Minor in Nuclear Engineering



The need for graduate engineers with education in nuclear engineering will grow significantly in the coming years, both due to the new plants as well as the retirement of current nuclear professionals. A minor in nuclear engineering will provide engineers graduating from the Clark School with the capabilities needed to enter the field. 
UMD Radiation Facilities




Students working at the Maryland University Training Reactor (MUTR)











Nuclear power currently accounts for approximately 20% of electricity generation in the United States. With 104 operating reactors, the U.S. has more installed nuclear capacity than any nation in the world. Since operation of nuclear plants results in zero emissions of greenhouse gases, which are recognized as significant contributors to global climate change, the requirement for additional nuclear power plants is being recognized as a needed component of the US energy future. At present, the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission anticipates receiving applications for more than 25 new plants within the next two years.
The minor in Nuclear Engineering provides the engineering student with the understanding of nuclear engineering and its application to many different fields, such as power generation, reactor operation, and industrial uses. Students in the minor will learn the fundamentals of nuclear reactor engineering, radiation interactions and measurement, power plant design concepts, and reactor safety. The minor is open to any student in the Clark School of Engineering.


Requirements for the Minor


To successfully complete the minor in nuclear engineering, a student must complete a total of 15 credits (5 3-credit courses). All courses must be completed with a grade of C- or higher. A maximum of two of the required five courses can be used to satisfy requirements of the student’s major (with approval of the major department).
All students pursuing the minor will be required to take the following four core courses:
ENME 430 - Fundamentals of Nuclear Reactor Engineering
ENME 431 - Nuclear Reactor Systems and Safety
ENME 432 - Reactor and Radiation Measurements Laboratory or ENME 489T - Nuclear Reactor Design
The fifth course for the minor will be selected, with the help of the student’s minor advisor, based on student interest. Some possible choices include:
ENME 488 - Special Problems in Mechanical Engineering
ENME 489_ - Special Topics is Mechanical Engineering
	(Student would select an appropriate course from a number of special topics courses taught each semester in the Mechanical Engineering Department)
ENRE 447 - Fundamentals of Reliability
ENMA 422 - Radiation Effects on Materials
ENEE 474 - Power Systems


Contact Information



Dr. Patrick McCluskey
Director of Undergraduate Studies
2188 Glenn L. Martin Hall, Building 088mcclupa@umd.edu301-405-0279


 


Top








Faculty Directory

Staff Directory

Careers

Media

Facilities

ClarkNet






Facebook
Twitter
Youtube
Instagram












Privacy Policy

Accessibility

umd.edu



© 2024 University of Maryland







