










Undergraduate Program | Department of American Studies





      Skip to main content
    


Skip to main content









Apply


Give


Trigger Search



Search this Site

Go



        Menu
        
Trigger Menu









Close

Search this Site

Go



Primary Header Navigation


ARHU Home


Home


About


Commencement




Academic Programs


Courses


Undergraduate


Undergraduate Admissions


B.A. Program


U.S. Latina/o Studies Minor


Advising


Honors Program


Undergraduate Funding


Beyond the Classroom




Graduate


M.A. Program


Ph.D. Program


Dual-Degree M.A. Historic Preservation and American Studies (HPAM)


Museum Scholarship and Material Culture Certificate


Graduate Funding


Graduate Admissions


Graduate Placement






Research






Secondary Header Navigation


Apply


Give


News


Events


People


Contact


Prospective Students


Current Students


Resources for Faculty & Staff


Alumni











Undergraduate Program






Breadcrumb


Home


Academic Programs











American studies provides a solid foundation in theories and methods applicable to the investigation of American culture and society, past and present. 

















Quick Links

B.A. Program
U.S. Latina/o Studies Minor
Admissions
Advising
Honors Program
Undergraduate Funding
Beyond the Classroom




The undergraduate program of American studies offers an interdisciplinary approach to the cultural complexities of the United States and the people, places, literary and visual arts, ideas and institutions that comprise it. 
Our interdisciplinary focus on cultural constructions and identity is complemented with courses outside the American studies department. Through majoring in American studies, students will gain transferable skills in critical thinking, verbal and written communications, analytical thinking and research, all of which are sought by employers and advanced degree programs.
Two broad themes inform the department’s teaching and research: the social construction of difference and the culture of everyday life. The former speaks to the ways in which affiliations are created and sustained; the latter focuses on patterns of belief and value that give form and meaning to the lived experience of Americans, past and present. Through these emphases, the program aims to help students develop knowledge about American society and culture that is critical, contextual and informed by a high degree of personal awareness.
A note for students of American studies about writing.
What Can I Do as an AMST Major?
Maryland’s undergraduate program in American studies is one of the nation’s oldest and best regarded. Originally conceived as a cooperative venture combining sociology, government, U. S. history and American literature, American studies continues to be an interdisciplinary field that draws widely on the university’s superb resources in the humanities and social sciences as well as the intellectual resources of the Washington, D.C. area.
The National Association of Colleges & Employers’ (NACE) 2011 Job Outlook listed the skills and abilities employers are seeking. The top 10 were:

Communication (verbal)
Strong work ethic
Teamwork
Analytical skills
Initiative
Problem-solving skills
Communication (written)
Interpersonal skills (relates well to others)
Digital media skills
Flexibility/adaptability

Organizations consistently seek candidates who possess a collection of “transferable skills”—skills acquired through your classes, extracurricular involvement, experience and hobbies that are applicable to virtually any position. The skills listed above all fit into this category and students in the arts and humanities, as noted by professionals and academics alike, participate in a rich curriculum that develops their skills in many, if not all, of these areas and beyond, making them extremely marketable and valuable to potential employers. In the current Recruiting Trends report put out by the Collegiate Employment Research Institute, nearly 40% of employers indicate that they will seek candidates across “all majors,” focusing more on the skills and abilities needed in the organization than on a specific academic discipline.
An American studies degree can be shaped to fit a variety of disciplines and the broad skill set you acquire allows you to apply your knowledge in many exciting areas. The University Career Center’s most recent graduate survey showed that upon graduation ARHU students entered into a range of dynamic industries including: Arts, Government, Academia/Education, Non-Profit/Philanthropy, Health Services/Healthcare Communications/Media, Advertising, Technology, Food & Hospitality Services, Entertainment, Social Services and more!
Sample job titles include:

Archivist
Librarian
FBI/CIA Agent
Law Enforcement Officer
Biographer
Park Ranger
Museum Curator
Urban Planner
Lawyer
Lobbyist














Gaining Experience With Your Degree
It’s never too early to start your search for experience. Internships enable students to gain a sense of what it would be like to work in a particular field as they develop marketable skills and establish contacts that may lead to a job offer upon graduation. 
Explore Opportunities Beyond the Classroom


















Director of Undergraduate Studies










                            
                Asim
                
                                       Ali
                      


 Senior Lecturer and Director of Undergraduate Studies, American Studies  


            3331 Tawes Hall
                            College Park
                                        MD,
                                        20742
                      
(301) 405-6646
















News

                     
                      View All News 
                                      










December 1, 2023

American Studies
Take This Class! Disability Through a Different Lens







November 2, 2023

American Studies, History, School of Languages, Literatures, and Cultures
Philip Merrill Presidential Scholars Program Honors Top Students and Their Mentors







February 16, 2023

College of Arts and Humanities, School of Languages, Literatures, and Cultures, Linguistics, American Studies, Communication, Philosophy, School of Music, English, History, National Foreign Language Center
ARHU Faculty Awarded Grand Challenges Grants 











May 19, 2022

History, American Studies
Curating Arts and Culture on Campus 







April 19, 2022

American Studies, Art, Art History and Archaeology, Classics, Communication, English, History, Joseph and Rebecca Meyerhoff Program and Center for Jewish Studies, Linguistics, School of Languages, Literatures, and Cultures, School of Music, School of Theatre, Dance, and Performance Studies, Philosophy, The Harriet Tubman Department of Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies
Mizzou Administrator, Professor of Music and Black Studies Named ARHU Dean







December 17, 2021

American Studies, Art History and Archaeology, Art, Classics, Communication, English, History, Linguistics, Joseph and Rebecca Meyerhoff Program and Center for Jewish Studies, School of Languages, Literatures, and Cultures, School of Music, School of Theatre, Dance, and Performance Studies, The Harriet Tubman Department of Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies
A Message to Winter 2021 Graduates











December 7, 2021

American Studies
Arts and Humanities Colloquium: Janelle Wong Discusses Black and Asian American Relations in U.S. Politics Today







November 15, 2021

American Studies
‘I wasn’t surprised’: Maryland volleyball’s Rainelle Jones unshaken by protest hecklers.







September 19, 2021

College of Arts and Humanities, The Harriet Tubman Department of Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies, School of Theatre, Dance, and Performance Studies, Communication, American Studies, History, Art
2021–22 New Faculty Appointments








/news










Events




    
    
    

    
    
    

    
    Sorry, no events currently present.
    

    
    

    












Additional Information


Academic Programs


Research


Information for Current Students




















													Department of American Studies
													1328 Tawes Hall 
													Francis Scott Key Hall
												College Park, MD 20742
301.405.1354
americanstudies@umd.edu







Primary Footer Navigation


ARHU Home


Home


About


Academic Programs


Research








Secondary Footer Navigation


Apply


Give


News


Events


People


Contact


Prospective Students


Current Students


Resources for Faculty & Staff


Alumni












Follow Us





Facebook




Twitter




Instagram




© 2024 University of Maryland

Log In
Privacy Policy
Web Accessibility













