







Office of Undergraduate Admissions | Discover Maryland





































Skip to main content













Undergraduate  Admissions




















Visit UMD





Apply Now





Connect





Search







Academics 







All Programs


Colleges & Schools




Limited Enrollment Programs




LEP Admission for Current Students







        Want more information about our majors?
      

        Academics
      






Student Life






        Want to learn more about life as a Terp?
      

        Student Life
      



Housing & Dining


Student Support & Safety


Get Involved on Campus


Find Your Community







How To Apply







Freshman Applicants


Transfer Applicants




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program FAQs






International Applicants




English Language Proficiency
Obtaining a Visa
Financial Certification




Shady Grove Applicants




Shady Grove Terp Transfer Partnership






Application Deadlines


Admission Review Process & Factors


Application FAQs




Freshman Application FAQs
Transfer Application FAQ
Essay Questions
Submitting Documents







        Ready to apply?
      

        How to Apply
      






Tuition & Aid






        Need more information on cost of attendance at UMD,  financing your education and merit scholarships?
      

        Tuition & Aid
      



Cost of Attendance


Freshman Merit Scholarships


Transfer Merit Scholarships




Frederick Douglass Scholarship




Office of Student Financial Aid


















Home

        Discover Maryland
      






              Discover Maryland
            


      Spend a day on campus learning about the University of Maryland (UMD) and discovering why UMD could be the right choice for you!
    

As a high school sophomore or junior, we invite you to join us on campus for Discover Maryland! This event is designed to help you determine if UMD is a good fit for you and gives you the opportunity to:
learn about our admission processtake a tour of campusspeak with representatives from our colleges and schoolsmeet current studentsexplore exciting opportunities in and beyond the classroom at UMD
If you are no longer able to attend this open house program, please cancel your registration by sending an email to visit@umd.edu using the subject line “Discover Maryland Visit Cancellation”.


Monday, February 19, 20248:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. ET


Register
Register for Discover Maryland





If you are unable to attend this year's Discover Maryland but still want to visit the University of Maryland’s campus, we encourage you to explore other visit options on our calendar. (If you are an admitted student, please register for a Next Stop Maryland or Admitted Student Open House. Available dates will be released by February 1.)



      SCHEDULE AT A GLANCE
    

Throughout the event, you'll have the opportunity to create your own schedule and join sessions on a variety of topics, including:
8:00 a.m. to 8:30 a.m. - Check-in8:30 a.m - 9:45 a.m. - Welcome, Admissions 101 & Terp Talk Student Panel | Receive an overview of the day, followed by a presentation about UMD, our admission process and a panel of current students sharing their Terp experiences.10:00 a.m. to 10:50 a.m. - Explore Majors at UMD | Connect with representatives, explore majors and learn about opportunities within the University of Maryland’s 12 colleges and schools.11:00 a.m. to 11:50 a.m. - Session Block A*12:15 p.m. to 1:45 p.m. - Information Express | Walk around our information/resource fair to ask questions and gather information from academic departments and student support services.1:00 p.m. to 1:45 p.m. - Session Block B*Available at 11 a.m., 12 p.m. and 1 p.m. - Campus Tours | Experience the UMD campus for yourself as you are led by a student tour guide to see campus landmarks.
*A finalized schedule will be released before the event. You’ll be able to choose from sessions on the following topics:
Living on campus Financial aid & merit scholarships Transfer admission processUMD’s first-year invitation programs (This includes BioFIRE, Carillon Communities, College Park Scholars, FIRE and Honors College. These first-year invitation only programs provide community for students through shared classes, research and service projects, and special events. Some programs offer living accommodations. To be invited, students must submit a completed application by the Nov. 1 deadline. All majors are invited to join.)



For special accommodations or services for deaf or hearing-impaired visitors, please email us at least three business days in advance of the event date. Emails can be sent to visit@umd.edu using the subject line "Discover Maryland Special Accommodations".













      There is a lot more to learn about UMD, so let's stay in touch!
    






Join Our Mailing List







Connect

















              Undergraduate Admissions
            

                  Mitchell Building
                

                  7999 Regents Dr.
                

                  College Park, MD 20742
                


1-800-422-5867
ApplyMaryland@umd.edu



























Majors & Minors


Student Life


Admissions Requirements


Application Deadlines
Application Deadlines


Tuition & Aid




              Information For:
            

Prospective Students


Parents & Families


Counselors & Advisors
Counselors & Advisors


Admitted Students










Visit UMD






Apply Now






Connect









umd.edu


Privacy Policy


Web Accessibility


        © 2023 UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND
      









