







Office of Undergraduate Admissions | Maryland Transfer Advantage…





































Skip to main content













Undergraduate  Admissions




















Visit UMD





Apply Now





Connect





Search







Academics 







All Programs


Colleges & Schools




Limited Enrollment Programs




LEP Admission for Current Students







        Want more information about our majors?
      

        Academics
      






Student Life






        Want to learn more about life as a Terp?
      

        Student Life
      



Housing & Dining


Student Support & Safety


Get Involved on Campus


Find Your Community







How To Apply







Freshman Applicants


Transfer Applicants




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program FAQs






International Applicants




English Language Proficiency
Obtaining a Visa
Financial Certification




Shady Grove Applicants




Shady Grove Terp Transfer Partnership






Application Deadlines


Admission Review Process & Factors


Application FAQs




Freshman Application FAQs
Transfer Application FAQ
Essay Questions
Submitting Documents







        Ready to apply?
      

        How to Apply
      






Tuition & Aid






        Need more information on cost of attendance at UMD,  financing your education and merit scholarships?
      

        Tuition & Aid
      



Cost of Attendance


Freshman Merit Scholarships


Transfer Merit Scholarships




Frederick Douglass Scholarship




Office of Student Financial Aid


















Home
Transfer Applicants

        Maryland Transfer Advantage Program
      






              Maryland Transfer Advantage Program
            


The Maryland Transfer Advantage Program (MTAP) provides a pathway for students at participating community colleges to earn an undergraduate degree at the University of Maryland (UMD).


Students who participate in MTAP have access to transfer advising resources, can take discounted courses at UMD, and are guaranteed admission to the university upon successful completion of the program and submission of a transfer application by the early action application deadline.





    MTAP Eligibility
  


To be eligible for MTAP, students should have graduated from high school and must be enrolled at one of the MTAP partner community colleges listed below. This program is geared towards students who intend to complete 30 credits or an associate’s degree at a participating community college, then transfer to UMD to complete a bachelor’s degree.
Participating Community Colleges:
Anne Arundel Community CollegeCarroll Community CollegeCecil CollegeChesapeake CollegeCollege of Southern MarylandCommunity College of Baltimore CountyFrederick Community CollegeHarford Community CollegeHoward Community CollegeMontgomery CollegePrince George’s Community CollegeWor-Wic Community College
The following types of students are ineligible to apply to MTAP. Please review our MTAP FAQs for more information.
Spring admitted freshmanStudents who are re-enrolling at UMDStudents currently enrolled at a four-year institutionStudents who have been academically dismissed from UMDStudents who apply for MTAP and admission to the university at the same timeHigh school students who are dually enrolled at a community collegeStudents who have previously earned a bachelors degree





    Applying to MTAP
  


Application Requirements
In order to apply to MTAP, the following items need to be submitted:
An MTAP application, submitted by the appropriate deadlineVerification of your enrollment at a participating community collegeOfficial transcript (if you've completed at least one semester at the community college)
Once you've submitted your MTAP application, your community college will be informed and asked to provide enrollment verification for the upcoming term, as well as your official transcript.
After the above items are received, your MTAP application will be complete and the Office of Undergraduate Admissions will review your application. Students with a completed application, per the requirement above, are notified of their MTAP admission decision 4-6 weeks after the application deadline. These notifications will be sent to the email provided in the application.
MTAP Timeline
To determine when you should apply to MTAP, we encourage you to work with a community college counselor. It can be helpful to work backwards from the semester you wish to transfer to UMD. 
You may apply from the time you are admitted to a participating community college until the MTAP deadline prior to your last semester.
Apply to MTAP | Deadlines are June 1 and November 15.Participate in MTAP | You can take courses at UMD during the summer or winter terms.Complete MTAP Requirements & Apply to UMD | Early action deadlines are March 1 for fall admission and August 1 for spring admission.Transfer to UMD | You can transfer for the fall or spring semester.
If you're applying for MTAP prior to earning grades for any credits, you would likely be eligible to transfer to UMD while in progress of your third semester.
MTAP Application

When the application is available, we will post the link below.






    Taking UMD Courses Through MTAP
  


MTAP students are eligible to take UMD courses, during the winter and summer terms only, at a 25% reduced tuition rate. Students are limited to one course per term. Among other campus resources, MTAP students will have access to transfer advising resources, the university library system, athletic events, Shuttle-UM buses and the Eppley Recreation Center. To do so, review the schedule of classes (be mindful of any prerequisite courses) and complete the Course Interest Survey by the appropriate deadline.





    MTAP Completion Requirements & Transferring to UMD
  


Students must participate in MTAP for a minimum of one semester before transferring to UMD. To complete the program requirements and successfully transfer to UMD, students should work closely with their community college counselor to meet the following minimum criteria:
Complete 30 college credit hours or earn an associate’s degree from an MTAP partner community collegeComplete fundamental studies in English and mathematics*Earn a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.0 or a B average from all previous institutions attendedAdhere to all admission policies in addition to the academic stipulations already listedSubmit a completed UMD transfer application by the early action deadline following the semester in which you’ll complete all MTAP requirementsMTAP applicants are required to submit updated official transcripts from all previously attended institutions
*AP/IB credits can be used to satisfy the Fundamental English & Math courses required for MTAP, however, they will not count towards the overall 30 college credit hours required to complete MTAP or apply for transfer admission. The 30 college credits must be completed post high school graduation. Original AP/IB test scores must be sent directly from the testing agency to the Office of Undergraduate Admissions.
Additionally, credits earned at another two- or four-year institution can be used to meet the MTAP requirements, as long as the last 15 credits are completed at one of the participating community colleges.
The Articulation System for Maryland Colleges and University (ARTSYS) and Transfer Credit Services websites provide information on how courses from any Maryland college or university and/or any AP/IB credits may transfer to UMD.





Still have questions about MTAP?



Please review our frequently asked questions. You can reach out to Pre-Transfer Advising directly for questions pertaining to course selection. 
We've added advising hours! If you've read through the FAQs and still have questions about MTAP, you can meet with our staff on Thursdays from 1:00-3:00 p.m. Sign up below. 
Expectations for advising hours:
Come prepared with questions regarding MTAP or the transfer process. (Course selection questions should be directed to Pre-Transfer Advising)Arrive promptly to your appointment. If you arrive 10 or more minutes late, your appointment will be cancelled.Appointments are for prospective students. While students are welcome to invite others to join in, the student must be present for the meeting to occur.
















      There is a lot more to learn about UMD, so let's stay in touch!
    






Join Our Mailing List







Connect

















              Undergraduate Admissions
            

                  Mitchell Building
                

                  7999 Regents Dr.
                

                  College Park, MD 20742
                


1-800-422-5867
ApplyMaryland@umd.edu



























Majors & Minors


Student Life


Admissions Requirements


Application Deadlines
Application Deadlines


Tuition & Aid




              Information For:
            

Prospective Students


Parents & Families


Counselors & Advisors
Counselors & Advisors


Admitted Students










Visit UMD






Apply Now






Connect









umd.edu


Privacy Policy


Web Accessibility


        © 2023 UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND
      









