












English (B.A.) | Department of English





      Skip to main content
    


Skip to main content









Apply


Give


Trigger Search



Search this Site

Go



        Menu
        
Trigger Menu









Close

Search this Site

Go



Primary Header Navigation


ARHU Home


Home


About


Mission and Values


Diversity & Inclusion




People


Academic Programs


Courses


Undergraduate


English (B.A.)


Cinema and Media Studies (B.A.)


English-Education Double Major


English Minors


Advising


Honors Program


Commencement




Graduate


Creative Writing (M.F.A.)


English (M.A.)


English (Ph.D.)


Comparative Literature (Ph.D.)


Graduate Certificates


Funding


Graduate Job Placements




Beyond the Classroom


Internships


Study Abroad


Careers






Writing Programs


Academic Writing


Professional Writing


Writing Center




Research & Innovation


Center for Literary and Comparative Studies


Awards in the Public Humanities: Research & Engagement (2022-2023)


Conferences


Colloquia




Booklab


Publications


Interpolations


Interpolations Fall 2021


Interpolations Fall 2020


Interpolations Fall 2019


Interpolations Fall 2018


Interpolations Fall 2017


Interpolations Fall 2016


Interpolations Spring 2015


Interpolations Fall 2013/Spring 2014


Interpolations Spring 2012


Interpolations Spring 2011


Interpolations Spring 2010


Interpolations Spring 2009


Interpolations Fall 2009




Paper Shell Review


Paper Shell Review Spring 2021


Paper Shell Review Spring 2020


Paper Shell Review Spring 2019


Paper Shell Review Spring 2018


Paper Shell Review Spring 2017


Paper Shell Review Spring 2016


Paper Shell Review Spring 2015


Paper Shell Review Spring 2014


Paper Shell Review Spring 2013


Paper Shell Review Spring 2012


Paper Shell Review Spring 2011




Restoration Journal






English in the World






Secondary Header Navigation


Events


News


Contact


Alumni


Prospective Students


Current Students


For Faculty & Staff


Donors











English (B.A.)






Breadcrumb


Home


Academic Programs


Undergraduate











Our major offers core training in English studies and also opportunities to build knowledge across diverse fields, pursue internships and explore learning opportunities beyond the classroom.

















Related Resources

Advising 
English Honors 
Current Courses
Prospective Students




The English B.A. includes five main elements that together offer our fullest training in key approaches to analyzing literature, rhetoric, and media; the structures and effects of the English language; and theories and practices of writing from the creative to the professional.
 
One central element of the major is its four defined tracks, which highlight different fields within the discipline of English and how they can be applied. Students pursue their own area of specialization by choosing one of the four tracks, allowing them to professionalize and articulate their skills to future employers. At the same time, the major’s flexibility also allows students to follow their interests and build knowledge across multiple fields.










5 Major Elements of the English B.A. 



Element 1: ENGL 301 | “This is English: Fields and Methods” (3 credits)


All students take ENGL 301 as an introduction to the full range of the English discipline, including an overview of the major’s tracks to help you gauge what field and methods best fit your intellectual and career goals.  




Element 2: Historical Studies (12 credits)


History is central to English Studies. In order to interpret and create, we must understand how literature, language, rhetoric, and media have changed along with cultural change in their work of representing, critiquing, and imagining, and also how literature, language, rhetoric, and media thereby give us what we know as histories and counter histories. All students must take four courses covering a minimum of three of the following four historical periods.

Beginnings, Medieval, and Early Modern Periods
Long Eighteenth Century
Long Nineteenth Century
Modern and Contemporary Periods





Element 3: Tracks (12 credits)


All students choose a particular field of English on which to focus in order to add depth to the breadth of Elements 1 and 2. Students select a track from among those listed below and take 12 credits (typically 4 courses) in that track. Scroll down the page to learn more about each track.

Literary and Cultural Studies
Language, Writing and Rhetoric
Media Studies
Creative Writing





Element 4: Electives (9 credits)


To allow students to explore additional topics, skills and encounters of interest, the major includes elective credits, which may be filled by any English (ENGL) or Comparative Literature (CMLT) course or any approved course outside of the department. Students often use these credits to pursue internships within the department or beyond, or to complete our career preparation course, ENGL497: “English at Work.”




Element 5: Perspectives, Methods and Writing


These co-requirements guide students toward approaches, skills and perspectives that inform all fields within the English discipline in their effort to analyze, theorize and practice literature, language and media. Students cannot count the same course for more than one of these co-requirements.

Differences and Diasporas: Literature, language and media serve as a crucial means for articulating heterogeneity, charting local and global networks of belonging and pursuing civic engagement and responsibility. Students take at least 1 course focusing on minority and other non-dominant voices pertaining to forms of social difference, such as gender, sexuality, ethnicity, race and mental or physical ability.
Methods: Assumptions about method imbue every analytical and creative engagement with literature, language and media, shaping decisions about everything from what research questions deserve our attention to what techniques convey and multiply meaning. These assumptions must become explicit for critics and artists to make informed decisions about their ideas and performances. Students gain this awareness by taking at least 1 course that foregrounds major methods within the English discipline, including poetics, critical theory, discourse analysis, archival research, critical making and more. Note that Methods courses must be taken at the 200, 300 or 400 levels. Students are encouraged to focus on methods within their selected track, but that isn’t required.
Advanced Writing: Writing is a fundamental skill in the English discipline and is one that students hone in all of their major courses, starting with ENGL301. But, to ensure that students have dedicated time, space and guidance in composition and analysis, they must take a least one course designated as Advanced Writing. These courses feature fewer students and a more concerted focus on discussing, workshopping and practicing writing. Note that Advanced Writing courses must be taken at the 300 or 400 levels. Students cannot count their Fundamental Studies Professional Writing course toward this requirement (or toward the major more generally).



















English Major Tracks 
English majors choose a particular field of English on which to focus in order to add depth to the breadth of Elements 1 and 2. Students must select a track from among those listed below and take 12 credits in that track. Courses must be taken at the 200, 300 and/or 400 levels. 













Literary and Cultural Studies


Learn to read with attention to forms of literary expression and to the cultural force of what’s being expressed. Trace how literature informs local, national and global perspectives and how it offers histories, counter histories and possible futures. Students in this track take 1 course in each of the following topics, leaving the remaining credits open for any literature course:

Form, Genres and Poetics
National, Transnational and/or Global Literatures 

Requirements checklist for the Literary and Cultural Studies track.




Language, Writing and Rhetoric


Gain the essential tools of writing, presentation, communication and persuasion by studying rhetorical and linguistic principles as well as discourse conventions and audience beliefs, both past and present. Students in this track take 1 course in each of following topics, leaving the remaining credits open for any language, writing or rhetoric course:

History, Analysis and Theory
Practice, Performance and Pedagogy

Requirements checklist for the Language, Writing and Rhetoric track.




Media Studies


Learn about the materials, technologies and practices of dissemination for a range of media, including comparative study to understand how media shape meaning individually and as a network. Students in this track take a course in at least 2 of the following categories (2 courses total) and are encouraged to cover more, though the remaining credits are open for any media course:

Print and Script
Music and Sound
Image and Moving Image
Digital Cultures

Requirements checklist for the Media Studies track.




Creative Writing


Creative writing is a process of sustained engagement with one’s own work and close study of established writers. Tackle the process through workshops in multiple genres and learn the creative concepts and methods that writers use to make meaning—and resist it. Students take 1 of each of the following course types, leaving the remaining credits open for any creative writing workshop course:

200-level Creative Writing Workshop
300-level Creative Writing Workshop
Creative Form and Theory

Note that students cannot pursue the Creative Writing track and also be a Creative Writing minor. To enroll in a 300-level workshop, students must receive an A or A- in a 200-level workshop or must submit an acceptable portfolio of work to the Creative Writing faculty. Students may substitute 1 approved UMD workshop course taught outside of the English department for their 300-level creative writing workshop, but may not take a 400-level workshop in the English department without taking a 300-level workshop in the department. Students may only count a Creative Form and Theory course once toward their 4 required courses for the track.
Requirements checklist for the Creative Writing track.


















Declaring the Major
To add the English major, your first step is to meet with an English advisor.
To make an appointment, email english@umd.edu. Your English advisor will discuss the English major requirements with you, review any courses you have already taken, create an academic plan for the next few semesters and provide you with the paperwork needed to declare your major through the College of Arts and Humanities
















													Department of English
													2119 Tawes Hall
												College Park, MD 20742
301.405.3809
english@umd.edu







Primary Footer Navigation


ARHU Home


Home


About


People


Academic Programs


Writing Programs


Research & Innovation


English in the World








Secondary Footer Navigation


Apply


Give


People


Events


News


Diversity












Follow Us





Facebook




Twitter




Instagram




Linkedin




© 2024 University of Maryland

Log In
Privacy Policy
Web Accessibility













