
















Home | Letters & Sciences










      Skip to main content
    






Letters & Sciences









Main Menu




Academic Advising


Drop-In Advising


Programs


Forms














Welcome Terps!
We provide academic advising to nearly 4,000 students to support them in achieving their educational, personal, and professional goals. Primarily, LTSC prepares students to declare a degree-granting major at UMD.

          Get to Know Us!
      










Welcome to the University of Maryland, College Park! 

Congratulations on being admitted to the University of Maryland, College Park.As you prepare to start at the university this Spring, we have identified several steps to assist with your transition to Maryland.  All newly admitted students who have confirmed enrollment with the university are required to meet with an academic advisor to begin the next steps in their educational journey and register for courses.At this time, all orientation programs are closed, so students must meet with an academic advisor during Drop-In Advising beginning Friday, January 26, 2024. Click here to see the next opportunity to attend Drop-In Advising. Students are strongly encouraged to arrive as early as possible for Drop-In Advising. Prior to attending Drop-In Advising, newly admitted students are expected to do the following:Unofficial Transcript: Visit Testudo to verify that the University of Maryland, College Park has received any official Advanced Placement (AP) score report(s), International Baccalaureate (IB) score information, and/or transfer credit(s) taken prior to your enrollment at the University of Maryland, College Park. Potential Courses: Review Testudo to identify courses that may be of interest and write down the four-letter and the three numbers along with any suffix that may accompany the course (i.e., BMGT289X, PSYC100, HIST200).Math Placement Test (MPT): Take or be prepared to identify a date when the Math Placement Test will be taken. Limited Enrollment Program: Review the university's Limited Enrollment Program (LEP) information at https://lep.umd.edu./ under the CURRENT STUDENTS section to learn about LEP Gateway Courses and Guidelines.Students are encouraged to meet with an academic advisor as soon as possible during Drop-In Advising since January 24, 2024 was the first day of classes. You may email ltsc_welcome@umd.edu if you have questions.

















Fall 2023
Academic DeadlinesJan. 23 - Last Day to Cancel RegistrationJan. 24 - First Day of Classes; Waitlist Check-in BeginsFeb. 6 - End of Schedule Adjustment (Last Day to Add or Drop Classes)Apr. 9 - Last Day to Drop with a "W" (1 course/Max 4 credits)May 9 - Last Day to Withdraw from the Semester "WW"









LTSC Change of Major Process
Students interested in changing their major to Letters & Sciences should complete ALL the steps. 

Change Major TO Letters & Sciences











Connect with Us
Get updates about opportunities, upcoming events, and more!

Follow us on Instagram 
LTSC Resource Drive











LTSC Scholarship Opportunities
The Office of Letters and Sciences (LTSC) provides two scholarship opportunities to help qualified students fund their studies. 

The Betty J. Beckley Award
The Letters and Sciences Scholarship 













TerrapinSTRONG


TerrapinSTRONG is the University of Maryland’s new onboarding program for faculty, students, and staff. It affirms our mission, culture, and values as a diverse, united, inclusive, and empowered community.  All new Terps in Letters and Sciences (LTSC), Freshmen Connection (FC), and Academic Achievement Programs (AAP) are invited to attend Undergraduate Studies’ (UGST) TerrapinSTRONG Events. 
Stay tuned for TerrapinSTRONG fall 2023 events created with YOU in mind. The goal of these events is to help you find community here on campus, get connected with the university, and experience a sense of inclusion and belonging as a new Terp.
















Terps, Are You Career Ready?
Career readiness includes both academic and out-of-class experiences that help you grow knowledge and skills necessary to prepare for many career paths. Click below button to get YOU ready!


          Start Your Career Here
       
















Explore Majors & Minors

Take FOCUS 2, a free assessment tool that gives you a complete picture of your interests, values, personality and skills aligned to majors, occupations, and career paths.
Review comprehensive lists of UMD Majors and UMD Minors to consult all available options.



















LTSC Scholarship Opportunities
Letters and Sciences (LTSC) provides two scholarship opportunities to help qualified students fund their studies.
Applications are open until May 31st.


          View Applications
       

















Letters & Sciences
1117 Hornbake Library, College Park, MD 20742
301-314-8418
 / 
301-314-8419
 · 
askltsc@umd.edu
 / 
Office Hours: M-F 8:30am-4:30pm





Visit our Twitter





Visit our Facebook












About Us


Green Office


Give to LTSC


Diversity & Inclusion


Information for Parents


Directory


Web Accessibility


Privacy Notice





Back to Top






