







Office of Undergraduate Admissions | Tuition & Aid





































Skip to main content










Undergraduate  Admissions




















Visit UMD





Apply Now





Connect





Search







Academics 







All Programs


Colleges & Schools




Limited Enrollment Programs




LEP Admission for Current Students







        Want more information about our majors?
      

        Academics
      






Student Life






        Want to learn more about life as a Terp?
      

        Student Life
      



Housing & Dining


Student Support & Safety


Get Involved on Campus


Find Your Community







How To Apply







Freshman Applicants


Transfer Applicants




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program FAQs






International Applicants




English Language Proficiency
Obtaining a Visa
Financial Certification




Shady Grove Applicants




Shady Grove Terp Transfer Partnership






Application Deadlines


Admission Review Process & Factors


Application FAQs




Freshman Application FAQs
Transfer Application FAQ
Essay Questions
Submitting Documents







        Ready to apply?
      

        How to Apply
      






Tuition & Aid






        Need more information on cost of attendance at UMD,  financing your education and merit scholarships?
      

        Tuition & Aid
      



Cost of Attendance


Freshman Merit Scholarships


Transfer Merit Scholarships




Frederick Douglass Scholarship




Office of Student Financial Aid



























            Tuition & Aid
          

Consistently ranked as one of the best values in public higher education, you can rest assured that you will receive an affordable world-class education at the University of Maryland (UMD).


View Estimated Cost of Attendance
Estimated Cost of Attendance








Home

        Tuition & Aid
      








      COLLEGE IS A MAJOR INVESTMENT
    





The University of Maryland is here to help. We offer an array of financial aid programs—including scholarships, grants, loans and student employment—as part of our commitment to making an excellent education affordable.
We understand that without financial support, a college degree would be out of reach for many talented students. UMD has a long history of providing financial support to students of all economic backgrounds. If you need help, we are here to help you navigate the financial aid process and understand your options.








        Value in Education
      








      87%

          

      6 year graduation rate
    



      $72k+

          

      average salary after graduation
    
















      Types of Aid
    

There are various types of financial aid available. These types of aid can be classified as either need-based, meaning you and your family are not able to cover educational expenses,  or non-need based, which generally refers to aid you receive based on merit or qualification.












      Scholarships & Grants
    

Scholarships and grants provide funding that you don't have to pay back. These offers are based on financial need and/or academic achievement. Students are automatically reviewed for some merit scholarships if they apply by the early action deadline.






      Federal Work Study (FWS)
    

FWS is a federally funded program designed to assist students in meeting their educational and living expenses through part-time employment. Opportunities can be found both on- and off-campus and are available to students who demonstrate financial need (determined through the FAFSA).






      Loans
    

Loans are borrowed funds that you have to pay back after graduation. Federal loan terms vary based on financial need. The FAFSA is the only application needed to be considered for federal loans. Private loans are not based on need. 









      Terrapin Commitment
    





As part of the financial aid offer, Terrapin Commitment funds are provided to eligible students to reduce the gap between offered aid and the actual cost of attendance. For more information on eligibility, please review the Terrapin Commitment page.











          Office of Student Financial Aid
        

Learn more about the types of aid, UMD's financial aid process and more by visiting the Office of Student Financial Aid website.


Explore Financial Aid at UMD
Office of Student Financial Aid website











      Next Steps
    





We encourage students to take the following steps to educate themselves about financing a higher education and prepare to choose the best college for them.








    Research Financial Aid at UMD
  


Researching a school's cost of attendance and getting familiar with their financial aid process and terminology is a great start to turning your dream into a degree.
* Estimated Cost of Attendance
* Financial Aid Process





    Apply Early Action to UMD
  


Submitting a complete UMD application by the early action deadline gives students best consideration not only for admission, but for merit scholarships as well: November 1 for freshman applicants; March 1 for transfer applicants.
* Freshman Merit Scholarships
* Transfer Merit Scholarships





    Submit the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA)
  


The FAFSA is an essential tool in securing need-based support such as grants, work-study, student loans and some scholarships. Students must submit the FAFSA once a year to figure out what types of financial aid they are eligible to receive.
 The FAFSA can be submitted before or after completing a UMD application. To ensure the FAFSA is processed correctly, make sure it is sent to University of Maryland, College Park (FAFSA school code 002103) and include the student's social security number in both the FAFSA and UMD application.
The 2024-25 FAFSA will launch in December, and UMD’s priority deadline for this cycle will be March 1, 2024.
* Complete the FAFSA
* FAFSA FAQs
















      There is a lot more to learn about UMD, so let's stay in touch!
    






Join Our Mailing List







Connect

















              Undergraduate Admissions
            

                  Mitchell Building
                

                  7999 Regents Dr.
                

                  College Park, MD 20742
                


1-800-422-5867
ApplyMaryland@umd.edu



























Majors & Minors


Student Life


Admissions Requirements


Application Deadlines
Application Deadlines


Tuition & Aid




              Information For:
            

Prospective Students


Parents & Families


Counselors & Advisors
Counselors & Advisors


Admitted Students










Visit UMD






Apply Now






Connect









umd.edu


Privacy Policy


Web Accessibility


        © 2023 UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND
      









