







Office of Undergraduate Admissions | Shady Grove Terp Transfer…





































Skip to main content













Undergraduate  Admissions




















Visit UMD





Apply Now





Connect





Search







Academics 







All Programs


Colleges & Schools




Limited Enrollment Programs




LEP Admission for Current Students







        Want more information about our majors?
      

        Academics
      






Student Life






        Want to learn more about life as a Terp?
      

        Student Life
      



Housing & Dining


Student Support & Safety


Get Involved on Campus


Find Your Community







How To Apply







Freshman Applicants


Transfer Applicants




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program FAQs






International Applicants




English Language Proficiency
Obtaining a Visa
Financial Certification




Shady Grove Applicants




Shady Grove Terp Transfer Partnership






Application Deadlines


Admission Review Process & Factors


Application FAQs




Freshman Application FAQs
Transfer Application FAQ
Essay Questions
Submitting Documents







        Ready to apply?
      

        How to Apply
      






Tuition & Aid






        Need more information on cost of attendance at UMD,  financing your education and merit scholarships?
      

        Tuition & Aid
      



Cost of Attendance


Freshman Merit Scholarships


Transfer Merit Scholarships




Frederick Douglass Scholarship




Office of Student Financial Aid


















Home
Shady Grove Applicants

        Shady Grove Terp Transfer Partnership
      






              Shady Grove Terp Transfer Partnership
            


The Terp Transfer Partnership (TTP) is designed to benefit you while you are still enrolled at one of the partner institutions, Montgomery College or Frederick Community College, and will create a seamless pathway to one of the University of Maryland (UMD) programs offered at the Universities at Shady Grove (USG). If you have at least one semester left at a partner institution and want to gain early access to advising, workshops and events related to your UMD program at USG, the TTP program is a great option for you!
You will complete the TTP program while finishing your associate degree at Montgomery College or Frederick Community College. While enrolled in the TTP program, you are eligible to take early advantage of USG's modern campus, focused student body and convenience to home and work. Depending on your intended major, you will also be able to receive access to exclusive TTP benefits such as:
Priority advising with UMD program representatives.Pre-transfer advising to ensure that you are taking the correct classes at your partner instituion.Early academic advising on UMD program requirements.Early access to USG student services, supporting TTP students in the following Transfer Readiness Zones:Academic ReadinessCareer Readiness
Personal Success



If you are planning to complete your Montgomery College or Frederick Community College course(s) this semester and intend to transfer to one of the UMD programs offered at USG for the upcoming semester, please complete the application. The application will become available in early February.













      There is a lot more to learn about UMD, so let's stay in touch!
    






Join Our Mailing List







Connect

















              Undergraduate Admissions
            

                  Mitchell Building
                

                  7999 Regents Dr.
                

                  College Park, MD 20742
                


1-800-422-5867
ApplyMaryland@umd.edu



























Majors & Minors


Student Life


Admissions Requirements


Application Deadlines
Application Deadlines


Tuition & Aid




              Information For:
            

Prospective Students


Parents & Families


Counselors & Advisors
Counselors & Advisors


Admitted Students










Visit UMD






Apply Now






Connect









umd.edu


Privacy Policy


Web Accessibility


        © 2023 UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND
      









