










Religions of the Ancient Middle East B.A. | Joseph and Rebecca Meyerhoff Center for Jewish Studies





      Skip to main content
    


Skip to main content









Apply


Give


Trigger Search



Search this Site

Go



        Menu
        
Trigger Menu









Close

Search this Site

Go



Primary Header Navigation


ARHU Home


Home


About


Academic Programs


Courses


Undergraduate


Jewish Studies B.A.


Religions of the Ancient Middle East B.A.


Jewish Studies Minor


Israel Studies Minor


Religious Studies Minor


Hebrew Studies Minor


Individual Studies Combined B.A./M.A.


Hebrew Program


Advising


Internships


Scholarships


Study Abroad




Graduate


Jewish Studies M.A.


Jewish Studies Graduate Certificate


Graduate Application


Graduate Student Funding and Resources






Research


Joseph and Rebecca Meyerhoff Center for Jewish Studies


About the Meyerhoff Center


Jewish Studies Directory


Jewish Studies Academic Programs


Publication Series


Contact the Meyerhoff Center


Jewish Studies Resources




Joseph and Alma Gildenhorn Institute for Israel Studies


About The Gildenhorn Institute


Israel Studies Directory


Israel Studies Academic Programs


The Gildenhorn Family Scholarship in Israel Studies


Conferences and Lecture Series


Israel Studies Publications and Research


Israel 2023


Israel Studies Review


Research Papers


Position Papers




Israel Studies Resources




Religious Studies




Resources






Secondary Header Navigation


News


Events


People


Contact


Prospective Students


Current Students


Faculty & Staff Resources


Alumni











Religions of the Ancient Middle East B.A.






Breadcrumb


Home


Academic Programs


Undergraduate Studies











Explore the world out of which biblical Israel and ancient Judaism, Christianity and early Islam emerged.

















Quick Links

Religious Studies Program
Undergraduate Programs
Advising
Internships
Scholarships
Study Abroad




The major in religions of the ancient Middle East (RAME) offers students the opportunity to explore the world out of which biblical Israel and ancient Judaism, Christianity and early Islam emerged, as well as the wide array of other religious and cultural beliefs, practices and institutions that flourished between about 1200 BCE/BC and 850 CE/AD. In foundations courses, students take at least one course that addresses a significant question about the nature of religion and religious change or the interplay of religious groups. In addition they must take two courses that survey two geographical, cultural or chronological sub areas. In addition to electives, all students take an interdisciplinary capstone seminar, typically in their final year.
Language Track (min. 36 cr). Although there are no language requirements for the major, students who wish to incorporate ancient languages into their work are encouraged to pursue a language enhanced track. Students take six credits of language at the second year level as part of their major. They are also expected to make use of their target languages in completing the research project for the capstone course.
The university currently offers Arabic, Hebrew and Greek. The number of credits per course varies by language. Other languages such as Aramaic, Akkadian or Syriac taken through CourseShare or the Consortium of Universities of the Washington Metropolitan Area may be substituted.
Note: Students pursuing the language track may need to take up to 12 credits in language prerequisites to attain the second year level.








Schedule an advising appointment











Requirements for the Major


Note that lower-level courses are at the 100- and 200- levels and upper-level courses at the 300- and 400-levels. Courses at the 600-, 700- and 800-levels are reserved for graduate students.

One approved I-series course
	
RELS289I: “What is Religion?”
RELS289M: “Jesus, Mani, and Muhammad”
JWST274: “Jerusalem in Antiquity: The History of Sacred Space in a Holy City”


 Three courses in two or more geographical, chronological, or cultural sub-area
	
HIST120: “Islamic Civilization”
RELS264: “Introduction to the New Testament”
JWST225: “Religions of the Ancient Near East”
JWST231: “Jewish Texts and Cultures of the Second Temple Period”
JWST262: “Introduction to the Hebrew Bible/Old Testament”


Five Electives (four must be at the upper level)*
	
CLAS305: “Archaeological Methods and Practice”
HIST110: “The Ancient World”
HIST320: “Early Christianity: Jesus to Constantine”
HIST428: “Selected Topics in History” (HIST428R: “Transition to Islam: From the Ancient to the Medieval Muslim World”)
JWST324: “Biblical History and Culture”
JWST325: “Jews and Judaism in Antiquity I: Sixth Century BCE through the First Century CE”
JWST326: “Jews and Judaism in Antiquity II: First through Seventh Centuries”
JWST430: “Dead Sea Scrolls”
JWST468: “Readings in the Hebrew Bible”
JWST469: “Readings in Rabbinic Hebrew”
* Other courses by permission


Capstone (RELS408)















Advising



Making an Appointment


Students enrolled in the religions and cultures of the ancient Middle East major are advised on two tracks. The must meet with their College of Arts and Humanities advisor:

before or during their first semester
when they declare a major in ARHU
when they complete 45-55 credits
when they complete 90-100 credits

In addition, religions and cultures of the ancient Middle East majors have mandatory advising every semester. (Students with an additional major will have additional advising requirements depending on the major and/or college of the additional major.) You can reach Religious Studies Advisor Maxine Grossman by calling 301-405-4980, or at mgrossma@umd.edu.
 
 




What to expect from advising


Students who wish to major in religions and cultures of the ancient Middle East should expect to meet with the religious studies advisor each and every semester. During these meetings, the advisor will chart a student’s progress through the major. The kinds of questions that the advisor will ask include: “What courses are you taking,” “What courses do you intend to take?,” “Are you interested in studying abroad?,” and “How are you doing in your classes?”
The advisor will make notes and go through the Major Advising Form to ensure that the student understands the major’s requirements, what courses to take and when to take them. Every student will get a copy of his or her Major Advising Form at the end of each meeting for his or her own records.
Note that students who have not yet declared Jewish studies as their major must meet with the Jewish studies advisor and then meet with an ARHU advisor. During this first meeting with the Jewish studies advisor, the student will learn about the Four-Year Plan, which is a schedule of classes developed by ARHU and Jewish studies for the typical Jewish studies major to follow. It outlines which courses should be taken during which semesters.




What to bring to an advising meeting


When students come to a meeting with the religious studies advisor, they should bring a list of courses they are thinking about taking, as well as any other requirements they need to fulfill for another major or minor.
Other documents, such as the requirements for another major or minor, descriptions of courses taken abroad and previous Major or Minor Advising Forms, are also helpful to bring.















Additional Resources


Academic Catalog


Testudo




















													Joseph and Rebecca Meyerhoff Program and Center for Jewish Studies
													0124 Taliaferro Hall
												College Park, MD 20742
301.405.4975
jwst-contact@umd.edu







Primary Footer Navigation


ARHU Home


Home


About


Academic Programs


Research


Resources








Secondary Footer Navigation


Apply


Give


News


Events


People


Contact


Prospective Students


Current Students


Faculty & Staff Resources


Alumni












Follow Us





Facebook




Twitter




Youtube




Flickr




© 2024 University of Maryland

Log In
Privacy Policy
Web Accessibility













