










Minor in Israel Studies | Joseph and Rebecca Meyerhoff Center for Jewish Studies





      Skip to main content
    


Skip to main content









Apply


Give


Trigger Search



Search this Site

Go



        Menu
        
Trigger Menu









Close

Search this Site

Go



Primary Header Navigation


ARHU Home


Home


About


Academic Programs


Courses


Undergraduate


Jewish Studies B.A.


Religions of the Ancient Middle East B.A.


Jewish Studies Minor


Israel Studies Minor


Religious Studies Minor


Hebrew Studies Minor


Individual Studies Combined B.A./M.A.


Hebrew Program


Advising


Internships


Scholarships


Study Abroad




Graduate


Jewish Studies M.A.


Jewish Studies Graduate Certificate


Graduate Application


Graduate Student Funding and Resources






Research


Joseph and Rebecca Meyerhoff Center for Jewish Studies


About the Meyerhoff Center


Jewish Studies Directory


Jewish Studies Academic Programs


Publication Series


Contact the Meyerhoff Center


Jewish Studies Resources




Joseph and Alma Gildenhorn Institute for Israel Studies


About The Gildenhorn Institute


Israel Studies Directory


Israel Studies Academic Programs


The Gildenhorn Family Scholarship in Israel Studies


Conferences and Lecture Series


Israel Studies Publications and Research


Israel 2023


Israel Studies Review


Research Papers


Position Papers




Israel Studies Resources




Religious Studies




Resources






Secondary Header Navigation


News


Events


People


Contact


Prospective Students


Current Students


Faculty & Staff Resources


Alumni











Minor in Israel Studies






Breadcrumb


Home


Academic Programs


Undergraduate Studies











Study the history, culture and political structure of Israel and its place in the Middle East, including Hebrew and/or Arabic language.

















Quick Links

Undergraduate Programs
Advising
Internships
Scholarships
Study Abroad




The minor in Israel studies allows students to study the history, culture and political structure of Israel and its place in the Middle East, including the Hebrew and Arabic languages. Students must complete a total of 15 credits, including ISRL349Z: “History of Zionism and Israel”; ISRL448: “Seminar in Israel Studies”; and 4 other ISRL courses, one of which must satisfy the Middle East studies requirement of the minor.








Schedule an advising appointment











Minor Requirements


Note that lower-level courses are at the 100- and 200-levels and upper-level courses are at the 300- and 400-levels.
The 15 credits must be distributed in the following manner:

ISRL342/HIST376 History of Modern Israel - 3 credits 
ISRL448 Seminar in Israel Studies - 3 credits
1 course in the area of Middle East Studies - 3 credits
	
HIST120 Islamic Civilization
HIST491 History of the Ottoman Empire


2 elective courses from the following list: 
	
ISRL289 New Explorations in Israel Studies (ISRL289I)
ISRL448 Seminar in Israel Studies (ISRL448A)
ISRL448 Seminar in Israel Studies (ISRL448B)
ISRL449 Advanced Topics in Israel Studies
HEBR111 Elementary Hebrew I 3
HEBR112 Elementary Hebrew II 3
HEBR211 Intermediate Hebrew I 3
HEBR212 Intermediate Hebrew II 3
ARAB104 Elementary Modern Standard Arabic I-II 3
ARAB105 Elementary Modern Standard Arabic III-IV 3
ARAB204 Intermediate Modern Standard Arabic I 3
ARAB205 Intermediate Modern Standard Arabic II 3
ARAB207 Egyptian Colloquial Arabic II 3
ARAB304 Advanced Modern Standard Arabic I
ARAB305 Advanced Modern Standard Arabic II
JWST304 Critical Approaches to Israeli Culture
HEBR313 Conversation and Composition I
HEBR314 Conversation and Composition II
HEBR381 Introduction to Hebrew Cultural Studies
JWST478 Readings in Modern Hebrew
JWST471 Modern Hebrew Literature in Translation







Advising


The Israel Studies Advisor is Professor Ilai Saltzman.  He will meet with students each semester.
Each semester the Advisor, in consultation with the interdepartmental faculty advisory committee, will produce a list of courses currently offered, with particular attention to special topics and other exceptional courses. Other courses may be applied to the Minor with the approval of the Advisor.
Prospective Minors must submit applications to the Advisor. Applications to the Minor will be accepted beginning October 1 in the Fall Semester and March 1 in the Spring Semester for enrollment in the following Semester.
Students must have the following:

Completed ISRL342/JWST342/HIST376 (or equivalent) with a grade of C (2.0) or higher.
Completed at least 30 credits hours of undergraduate study prior to application.
Been admitted into the Minor prior to the completion of the final six credits of the Minor.

Up to 25 students will be enrolled annually as Minors on a first-come, first-served basis.
Enrolled minors will be required to meet with the advisor annually during the Fall or Spring registration periods. Students who fail to meet with their advisor or who fail to pursue their course of study may be unenrolled.
 















Additional Resources


Academic Catalog


Testudo




















													Joseph and Rebecca Meyerhoff Program and Center for Jewish Studies
													0124 Taliaferro Hall
												College Park, MD 20742
301.405.4975
jwst-contact@umd.edu







Primary Footer Navigation


ARHU Home


Home


About


Academic Programs


Research


Resources








Secondary Footer Navigation


Apply


Give


News


Events


People


Contact


Prospective Students


Current Students


Faculty & Staff Resources


Alumni












Follow Us





Facebook




Twitter




Youtube




Flickr




© 2024 University of Maryland

Log In
Privacy Policy
Web Accessibility













