







Office of Undergraduate Admissions | Visit





































Skip to main content










Undergraduate  Admissions




















Visit UMD





Apply Now





Connect





Search







Academics 







All Programs


Colleges & Schools




Limited Enrollment Programs




LEP Admission for Current Students







        Want more information about our majors?
      

        Academics
      






Student Life






        Want to learn more about life as a Terp?
      

        Student Life
      



Housing & Dining


Student Support & Safety


Get Involved on Campus


Find Your Community







How To Apply







Freshman Applicants


Transfer Applicants




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program FAQs






International Applicants




English Language Proficiency
Obtaining a Visa
Financial Certification




Shady Grove Applicants




Shady Grove Terp Transfer Partnership






Application Deadlines


Admission Review Process & Factors


Application FAQs




Freshman Application FAQs
Transfer Application FAQ
Essay Questions
Submitting Documents







        Ready to apply?
      

        How to Apply
      






Tuition & Aid






        Need more information on cost of attendance at UMD,  financing your education and merit scholarships?
      

        Tuition & Aid
      



Cost of Attendance


Freshman Merit Scholarships


Transfer Merit Scholarships




Frederick Douglass Scholarship




Office of Student Financial Aid



























            VISIT UMD
          

You can only learn so much about a school from a website. Even if we tell you how beautiful our campus is, or how fantastic our students and faculty are, you won't know for yourself until you experience it for yourself!


View Calendar
View our calendar for upcoming events








Home

        Visit
      








      TRY OUR CAMPUS ON FOR SIZE
    





Stop by one of our top-notch athletic facilities. Have a scoop of homemade ice cream at the Dairy. Rub the nose of one of our beloved Testudo statues for good luck. Get all your questions answered. It won't be hard to picture yourself at home here for the next four years.














      Prospective students
    

We've created a variety of options for you to visit UMD.                      Choose the one that best fits your needs and take a look at our calendar for availability!
You can also find us attending college fairs and visiting high schools around the country.












On Campus


      Maryland Information Session & Tour
    

Hear from an admission representative about UMD and our application process, followed by a student-led campus walking tour. Geared toward high school and transfer students, this session is about 2 hours long. Registration required. See available dates on our calendar.


View Calendar
View our calendar for upcoming events






On Campus


      Terrapin Tour
    

Join a student-led campus walking tour to learn about important buildings, resources and the student experience at UMD. Geared toward high school and transfer students, this tour is 60-90 minutes long. Registration required. See available dates on our calendar.


View Calendar
View our calendar for upcoming events






On Campus


      Group Tour
    

If you are interested in bringing a group of 10 or more students to campus, explore the different types of group tours available. Depending on the audience of your group, you may need to make arrangements with the Office of Undergraduate Admissions Visitor Center, or Conferences & Visitor Services.


Learn more about Group Tours
Learn more about Group Tours






On campus & virtual


      Academic Program Visits
    

Throughout the year, our 12 colleges and schools host a variety of information sessions and tours to give you an opportunity to learn more about a program (or major) of interest.


Explore Academic Program Events
View Academic Program Events






On Campus


      Fall Open House
    

Our next Fall Open House will be in October 2024. Fall Open House is an opportunity for high school juniors/seniors and transfer students to get to know UMD, hear from current students, speak with academic departments and support services, learn about applying and tour campus. 
 






On Campus


      Discover Maryland
    

Our next Discover Maryland will be held in February 2024. This day long event is geared toward high school sophomores/juniors. Discover Maryland is an opportunity to see what UMD has to offer, hear from current students, speak with academic departments and support services, learn about admissions and tour campus. Registration is required.
Learn more about Discover Maryland

















      Admitted students
    

Congratulations on your admission to the University of Maryland! Whether or not you've already had a chance to visit campus or connect with us elsewhere, we encourage you to take advantage of the following opportunities just for admitted students.
In addition to the opportunities listed below, our 12 colleges and schools host a variety of information sessions and tours for admitted students, to give you a chance to learn more about your admitted major.


Explore Academic Program Events
View Academic Program Events












On campus & virtual


      Admitted Student Open House
    

Registration will become available in Spring 2024. This day long program is geared toward newly admitted students and their families. You'll connect with representatives from your admitted major, hear from current students about their experiences and explore campus resources.






On Campus


      Next Stop Maryland
    

Registration will become available in Spring 2024. This two hour event is geared toward newly admitted students. You'll hear from the Office of Undergraduate Admissions and the Department of Resident Life about your next steps to becoming #AlwaysATerp! Students will also receive a tour and get a glimpse into what it's like living on campus.






Off Campus


      Terps on Tour
    

Registration will become available in Spring 2024. This two hour reception is for newly admitted students and their families. Join us for a celebratory get-together hosted in your community!

















      Other Ways to Explore UMD
    

Self-Guided Tour
Grab your phone and your walking shoes and prepare to see the iconic sights of the University of Maryland…at your own pace! Our self-guided walking tour is a great way to tour campus when other options reach capacity or are unavailable.
Virtual Tour
Unable to make it to campus? Explore UMD from anywhere in the world with our virtual tour. See some of our campus’ most important and noteworthy locations. To start your virtual tour, simply click or tap the image below!




















      University of Maryland Visitor Center
    

Whether you're headed to campus for a tour, an open house or to explore on your own, the Visitor Center at The Hotel at the University of Maryland is a great place to start.


Getting to UMD's Visitor Center
Getting to UMD's Visitor Center

















      There is a lot more to learn about UMD, so let's stay in touch!
    






Join Our Mailing List







Connect

















              Undergraduate Admissions
            

                  Mitchell Building
                

                  7999 Regents Dr.
                

                  College Park, MD 20742
                


1-800-422-5867
ApplyMaryland@umd.edu



























Majors & Minors


Student Life


Admissions Requirements


Application Deadlines
Application Deadlines


Tuition & Aid




              Information For:
            

Prospective Students


Parents & Families


Counselors & Advisors
Counselors & Advisors


Admitted Students










Visit UMD






Apply Now






Connect









umd.edu


Privacy Policy


Web Accessibility


        © 2023 UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND
      









