










B.S. in Mechatronics Engineering | The Universities at Shady Grove



















 





Skip to main content












Give to USG
News & Events
Search
Menu
 


×








Search 




 



 




Frequent Searches

What is the Universities at Shady Grove and how does it work?
Which universities are part of the Universities at Shady Grove?
How do I apply for admission to a program offered at the Universities at Shady Grove?
How do the tuition and fees work at the Universities at Shady Grove?
Other FAQs
 




About USGLeadership and Governance
Directions and Transportation
Hours of Operation
Campus Sustainability
Biomedical Sciences and Engineering Education Facility

Admissions and AidWhy USG?
How to Apply
Tuition and Fees
Scholarships
Financial Aid Resources
Transfer Students
High School Students
FAQs
Prospective Student Resources
Request Information

AcademicsDegree Programs
Academic Scheduling
Schedule of Classes
Inter-Institutional Enrollment
Collaborative Learning
Entrepreneurship Lab
Patient Care Facility

Campus ResourcesInformation Technology
Recreation & Well-Being
Copy Center
Facilities
Public Safety

Student Affairs & Career ReadinessHire U at USG
Center for Career Development
Center for Counseling & Well-being
Macklin Center for Leadership & Communication
Center for Scholarships
Center for Transfer Access

UniversitiesBowie State University
Salisbury University
Towson University
University of Baltimore
University of Maryland, Baltimore
University of Maryland, Baltimore County
University of Maryland, College Park
University of Maryland Eastern Shore
University of Maryland Global Campus

News and EventsUSG in the Media
News
Events
Discover USG News Blog
Around the Grove Student Blog
This is USG Podcast

Conference CenterPolicies and Forms

Library
Give to USG
Directory
 


Students
Faculty and Staff
Partners and Community
 























You are hereHome > Academics > Degree Programs > B.S. in Mechatronics Engineering 



B.S. in Mechatronics Engineering






























Program Overview
Launching Fall 2024

The Bachelor of Science in Mechatronics Engineering is a new undergraduate engineering program to be offered starting Fall 2024 at the Universities at Shady Grove by the University of Maryland, College Park, A. James Clark School of Engineering. The bachelor's degree is a 2-year program designed for students who have completed all UMD lower-level General Education coursework prior to transferring into the program in the fall of their junior year, either from a public Maryland community college or as an internal transfer student from the University of Maryland, College Park.
Mechatronics is the combination of mechanical, electrical, and information systems engineering. Mechatronics engineers design, develop, and test automated production systems, transportation and vehicle systems, robotics, computer-machine controls, and many other integrated systems. Mechatronics engineers also develop new technologies for use in the automotive and aviation industry, advanced manufacturing operations, and often specialize in areas such as robotics, autonomous vehicles, and manufacturing systems. 
The Bachelor of Science in Mechatronics will provide students with a fundamental understanding of mechatronic systems analysis, the knowledge of how these systems are developed and deployed, and the practical experience required to implement mechatronic systems in real-world applications. Graduates of the program are expected to be highly sought after in fields such as aerospace & defense, energy, infrastructure, manufacturing & automation, robotics, and biomedical engineering.
Prerequisites
Prior to being admitted to the Mechatronics major, students should have completed the Engineering gateway courses, basic math/science courses, and lower-level General Education requirements. Below is the representative set of requirements as they are offered at the University of Maryland:









Course


Title


Credits




ENGL101


Academic Writing


3




MATH140


Calculus I


4




MATH141


Calculus II


4




MATH241


Calculus III


4




MATH240


Introduction to Linear Algebra


4




MATH246


Differential Equations for Scientists and Engineers


3




CHEM135


General Chemistry for Engineers


3




PHYS161


General Physics: Mechanics and Particle Dynamics


3




PHYS260/261


General Physics: Vibration, Waves, Heat, Electricity and Magnetism (plus lab)


4




PHYS270/271


General Physics: Electrodynamics, Light Relativity and Modern Physics (plus lab)


4




ENES100


Introduction to Engineering Design


3




ENES102


Mechanics I


3




ENES220


Mechanics II


3




ENES232


Thermodynamics


3




GenEd courses


General Education Requirements


12




 


Total Credits


60




To find the course equivalents at your institution, please check the UMD Transfer Course Database.










      Contact    




Anna Mo
Faculty Assistant, Mechatronics Program Coordinator
Department of Aerospace Engineering
mechatronics@umd.edu



















The Universities at Shady Grove
Part of the University System of Maryland
301-738-6000|shadygrove@umd.edu
Directions   |     Web Accessibility
© 2024 The Universities at Shady Grove


Get Connected






 







About USG
Give to USG
Visit USG
Emergency Contacts
Policies and Procedures
Title IX
Employment
 













