







Office of Undergraduate Admissions | Find Your Community





































Skip to main content













Undergraduate  Admissions




















Visit UMD





Apply Now





Connect





Search







Academics 







All Programs


Colleges & Schools




Limited Enrollment Programs




LEP Admission for Current Students







        Want more information about our majors?
      

        Academics
      






Student Life






        Want to learn more about life as a Terp?
      

        Student Life
      



Housing & Dining


Student Support & Safety


Get Involved on Campus


Find Your Community







How To Apply







Freshman Applicants


Transfer Applicants




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program FAQs






International Applicants




English Language Proficiency
Obtaining a Visa
Financial Certification




Shady Grove Applicants




Shady Grove Terp Transfer Partnership






Application Deadlines


Admission Review Process & Factors


Application FAQs




Freshman Application FAQs
Transfer Application FAQ
Essay Questions
Submitting Documents







        Ready to apply?
      

        How to Apply
      






Tuition & Aid






        Need more information on cost of attendance at UMD,  financing your education and merit scholarships?
      

        Tuition & Aid
      



Cost of Attendance


Freshman Merit Scholarships


Transfer Merit Scholarships




Frederick Douglass Scholarship




Office of Student Financial Aid


















Home

        Find Your Community
      






              Find Your Community
            


      Find Your Community
    




Do Good Campus Community
Bring your valuable experiences, backgrounds, identities, and fields of study or interests to ignite meaningful change in the world. The Do Good Institute is committed to being a safe and welcoming place for all people, condemning and confronting acts of injustice, discrimination, harassment, or bigotry.






Frederick Douglass statue located in Hornbake Plaza.



Diversity and Inclusion 
The University of Maryland is committed to “inclusive excellence”—the notion that in order to educate our students with excellence, in order to foster outstanding research and scholarship, and in order to be national and global leaders, we must be diverse and inclusive. Through programs and resources, the Office of Diversity and Inclusion supports equity and diversity initiatives on campus and beyond.
Land Acknowledgement.





International ServicesWhile our students hail from over 150 countries, they quickly come to call Maryland home. The International Student & Scholar Services office assists international students with the process of applying to Maryland, advises on immigration requirements and provides resources to assist with transitioning to campus.





Veteran Services
The University of Maryland recognizes the extraordinary contributions of members of our armed services, and we understand the unique challenges of transitioning into a university environment. With a community of students, staff, faculty, and alumni who have served in the US military, Veteran Student Life supports a seamless transition from military life to civilian college life and provides support for continued growth in mind, body and spirit.






Multicultural & Faith Programs


      Office of Multi-Ethnic Student Education (OMSE)
    

The Office of Multi-Ethnic Student Education (OMSE) works to serve the more than 10,000 undergraduate multi-ethnic students. By serving these students in all academic, personal and programmatic endeavors, Maryland strives to increase rates of matriculation, retention, graduation and overall GPA.






Multicultural & Faith Programs


      Multicultural Involvement and Community Advocacy (MICA)
    

UMD’s Multicultural Involvement and Community Advocacy (MICA) office provides opportunities and spaces that affirm students and their identities, builds inclusive communities among diverse members and creates social change locally, nationally and globally.









Alumni Association
Stay involved after crossing that commencement stage by joining the Alumni Association. Participate in all sorts of events, programs and initiatives as a UMD graduate and serve as a beacon for students moving through their own college experiences.











        Resources
      




                Living-Learning Programs
              

Nothing connects students more than our highly regarded living-learning programs, where students with a common interest share residence halls, classrooms, faculty and friendships to dig deep into contemporary topics and get unique research experiences. Roughly half of all first-year students find their niche in one of these programs. To be considered for a living-learning program, you must apply for freshman admission by the November 1 early action deadline.


Learn More About Living-Learning Programs
Learn More About Living-Learning Programs




















      There is a lot more to learn about UMD, so let's stay in touch!
    






Join Our Mailing List







Connect

















              Undergraduate Admissions
            

                  Mitchell Building
                

                  7999 Regents Dr.
                

                  College Park, MD 20742
                


1-800-422-5867
ApplyMaryland@umd.edu



























Majors & Minors


Student Life


Admissions Requirements


Application Deadlines
Application Deadlines


Tuition & Aid




              Information For:
            

Prospective Students


Parents & Families


Counselors & Advisors
Counselors & Advisors


Admitted Students










Visit UMD






Apply Now






Connect









umd.edu


Privacy Policy


Web Accessibility


        © 2023 UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND
      









