


















Philip Merrill College of Journalism | University of Maryland










      Skip to main content
    














Main Menu




Degrees & Programs


Bachelor's Degree


Master's Degree


Online Data Master's


Ph.D. Program


Multimedia Certificate




Admissions


Undergraduate


Master's


Ph.D.


Multimedia Certificate




Why Merrill


Faculty Pulitzer & Peabody Winners


Howard Center


Povich Center


Capital News Service


Local News Network


Research


Diversity


Student Organizations


Internships


Study Abroad




Alumni & Giving


Get In Touch


Email Updates


Alumni Network




About


Centers & Organizations


Our Experts


News


Events


Technology & Equipment


UMTV


Board of Visitors


Hall of Fame


Information for Employers




Directory














Become #MerrillMade
Learn from the best. Become one of the best.

Practice innovative real-world journalism from day one, with guidance from our all-star, Pulitzer- and Peabody-winning faculty. All at one of the nation's top public universities, on the doorstep of the journalism capital of the world.

          More Information
      










          Investigative Journalism
      

          Sports Journalism
      

          Capital News Service
      

          Admitted Students
      

          Pulitzer- & Peabody-Winning Faculty
      

          Our Experts
      

          Research
      

          APPLY
      

          GIVE
      












Top 10
Merrill College is ranked a top-10 journalism school by multiple services





19
Pulitzer Prizes and Peabody Awards won or directed by current faculty and staff





18
Maximum number of students per skills class at Merrill College





Jan. 17
Master's program application deadline for Fall 2024





Jan. 20
Undergraduate Non-Early Action application deadline for Fall 2024





May 1
Undergraduate enrollment confirmation deadline for Fall 2024





View previous stat



View next stat












          Undergraduate Information Sessions
      

          Graduate Information Sessions
      









Why Merrill?
The Philip Merrill College of Journalism prepares you for the real world. Our students report from Washington, D.C., Baltimore, Annapolis and College Park through our Capital News Service. They investigate issues of national importance at the Howard Center for Investigative Journalism and learn to look beyond the box score at The Shirley Povich Center for Sports Journalism. Data reporting is weaved through every inch of our curriculum and practiced in our signature programs. Our graduates are hired and desired by the top news outlets in the country.






















There are a few standout journalism colleges in the country. But Merrill is the only one standing in the media capital of the world, which serves as its laboratory.





Kevin Blackistone
Professor of the Practice

















Howard Center
The Howard Center for Investigative Journalism allows students to work with news organizations and universities across the country to report stories of national and international importance.

          Learn more
       








Povich Center
The Shirley Povich Center for Sports Journalism prepares students to be innovators and leaders in all facets of sports media. Its experiential curriculum and public programs elevate and amplify discussion of race, gender, politics and the world.

          Learn more
       








Capital News Service
Overseen by professional journalists, Capital News Service is the University of Maryland’s student-powered news organization with bureaus and news teams in Annapolis, Baltimore, Washington and College Park.

          Learn more
       








National Association of Black Journalists
NABJ, headquartered in Knight Hall, is an organization of journalists, students and media professionals providing quality programs and services to, and advocating on behalf of, Black journalists.

          Learn more
       








More Centers and Organizations
The Philip Merrill College of Journalism hosts and supports a number of signature centers and organizations in Knight Hall, a state-of-the-art facility just a few miles from Washington, D.C.

          Learn more
       








Cutting-Edge Research
The college's faculty and graduate students are active researchers, serving the public and the profession by producing rigorous scholarly work that seeks to improve journalism.

          Learn more
       











Truly one of the great journalism schools.





Bob Woodward
Legendary Washington Post Reporter










#MerrillMade Alumni







Connie Chung
Former TV Anchor/Correspondent, CBS, CNN, NBC, ABC, MSNBC

View Profile for Connie Chung










Emilio Garcia-Ruiz
Editor In Chief, San Francisco Chronicle

View Profile for Emilio Garcia-Ruiz










Scott Van Pelt
Anchor, ESPN SportsCenter

View Profile for Scott Van Pelt










Maria Douglas Reeve
Managing Editor for News, The Star Tribune

View Profile for Maria Douglas Reeve










Sara Murray
Political Correspondent, CNN

View Profile for Sara Murray










Robert Klemko
Reporter, The Washington Post

View Profile for Robert Klemko













News




Search



Category
- Any -Capital News ServiceHoward CenterMerrill CollegePovich Center


Author
















January 24, 2024


Jon Franklin '70, Merrill College Professor Emeritus and Two-Time Pulitzer Winner, Dies at Age 82


Jon Franklin, winner of two Pulitzer Prizes and an author and teacher who fomented the late-20th century revolution of literary journalism in American newspapers, died Jan. 21 in Annapolis, Maryland. He was 82.










January 18, 2024


Merrill College Names CNN’s Christi Parsons Director of Capital News Service Annapolis Bureau


COLLEGE PARK — The University of Maryland’s Philip Merrill College of Journalism has named CNN Enterprise Editor and Assistant Managing Editor Christi Parsons a new faculty member and the new director of Capital News Service’s Annapolis bureau.










January 12, 2024


Merrill College Names Education Week’s Stacey Decker Director of Capital News Service Audience Engagement Bureau


COLLEGE PARK — The University of Maryland’s Philip Merrill College of Journalism has named longtime Education Week editor Stacey Decker the new director of Capital News Service’s audience engagement bureau.














              Current page
            1




              Page
            2




              Page
            3




              Page
            4




              Page
            5




              Page
            6




              Page
            7




              Page
            8




              Page
            9

…


            Nextpage




            Lastpage














Events











Info for Students


Info for Employees


Visit


Apply Now


Give Now


Contact


Board of Visitors








Philip Merrill College of Journalism
7765 Alumni Drive, College Park, MD 20742, USA
301.405.2399
 · 
journalism@umd.edu





Visit our Twitter





Visit our Facebook





Visit our Instagram





Visit our Youtube












Information for Visitors


FAQ's


Contact Us


Careers


Office of Civil Rights & Sexual Misconduct


UMD Police Department


Accessibility


Policies & Procedures


Public Records Request





Back to Top






