







Office of Undergraduate Admissions | Transfer Application FAQ





































Skip to main content













Undergraduate  Admissions




















Visit UMD





Apply Now





Connect





Search







Academics 







All Programs


Colleges & Schools




Limited Enrollment Programs




LEP Admission for Current Students







        Want more information about our majors?
      

        Academics
      






Student Life






        Want to learn more about life as a Terp?
      

        Student Life
      



Housing & Dining


Student Support & Safety


Get Involved on Campus


Find Your Community







How To Apply







Freshman Applicants


Transfer Applicants




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program FAQs






International Applicants




English Language Proficiency
Obtaining a Visa
Financial Certification




Shady Grove Applicants




Shady Grove Terp Transfer Partnership






Application Deadlines


Admission Review Process & Factors


Application FAQs




Freshman Application FAQs
Transfer Application FAQ
Essay Questions
Submitting Documents







        Ready to apply?
      

        How to Apply
      






Tuition & Aid






        Need more information on cost of attendance at UMD,  financing your education and merit scholarships?
      

        Tuition & Aid
      



Cost of Attendance


Freshman Merit Scholarships


Transfer Merit Scholarships




Frederick Douglass Scholarship




Office of Student Financial Aid


















Home
Application FAQs

        Transfer Application FAQ
      






              Transfer Application FAQ
            


Have questions about the University of Maryland (UMD) application process? We have answers. Save time by reviewing these frequently asked questions about the transfer application before contacting the Office of Undergraduate Admissions.





      Applying to UMD
    



    How can I apply to UMD?
  


Transfer students applying to UMD can do so using StandOut Admissions Network.





    When is the application deadline?
  


The transfer early action deadlines are March 1 for fall admission and August 1 for spring admission. Applicants are strongly encouraged to apply by either of those deadlines to receive priority consideration for admission to the university and merit-based scholarships. For more information, review our complete listing of application deadlines.





    Is the early action deadline binding? If I'm admitted, when do I have to confirm my enrollment?
  


The early action deadlines are non-binding. Admitted students have 30 days from the date listed on their admission decision letter to confirm their enrollment at UMD.





    What happens if my application is incomplete by the early action deadline? What about the regular deadline?
  


If you are unable to complete your application by the early action deadline, you are strongly encouraged to submit a completed application and all required materials by the regular deadline which is June 1 for fall admission and November 15 for spring admission. 
Applications completed after the regular application deadline will only be reviewed on a rolling, space-available basis.





    How does UMD review applications for admission?
  


The undergraduate admissions process is rigorous and individualized. UMD employs a holistic review process that utilizes 24 unique review factors.





    What essay questions will UMD use on the application?
  


Please refer to our essay questions page for the transfer application essay prompt.




      StandOut Admissions Network
    



    When can I begin to use StandOut Admissions Network?
  


You can begin using the StandOut Admissions Network platform at any time. Once you create an account, you can access Profile, Locker and Colleges sections to organize items for your college application.





    How do I share my profile information with UMD?
  


To share your contact information with UMD on the StandOut Admissions Network platform, you must first create an account and complete your profile. Profile information will later be transferred directly to your StandOut Admissions Network applications when you begin the application process. Once your profile is complete, you can search for the University of Maryland on the Colleges tab and select "add to list". Once added, you will be asked if you would like to opt-in to sharing your contact information with UMD. We will receive this information and add you to our mailing list.





    Who should I contact if I'm experiencing technical challenges with the StandOut Admissions Network platform?
  


For assistance with StandOut Admissions Network account creation, password issues and any challenges with the platform or tools, please contact StandOut's Help Center.
Application process and status questions should be emailed to the Office of Undergraduate Admissions at ApplyMaryland@umd.edu.





    Do I need to complete the 9th through 12th grade course list?
  


No. At the top of the page, there will be a box you can select that states I have finished adding my courses. Please select that box and you will be able to bypass the High School Course section of the StandOut Admissions Network profile. This should only be done in cases where the student applying is a transfer student. 





    How do I answer the question in the StandOut Admissions Network profile that asks "Does my High School Rank?"
  


As a transfer applicant, this information is not needed for a complete application. For this reason, you should select "No" for this question. This will allow you to continue completing the profile. 





    In the High School Information section of the StandOut Admissions Network profile there is a question that asks for the student's High School Counselor's contact information. As a transfer applicant, is this section required?
  


Please list the name and email of a contact at your most recent college or university. This information is used as part of the profile but will not be used to contact the person listed. Letters of recommendation are not required for a transfer application but are required if you are applying for the Frederick Douglass Scholarship. If you would like to submit a letter of recommendation please have it sent directly to the address below:
Office of Undergraduate AdmissionsMitchell Building7999 Regents DriveCollege Park, MD 20742




      Completing Your Application
    



    What do I need to submit for my application to be complete?
  


For an application to be complete, all items on the application checklist must be submitted and received by our office. Only completed applications will be reviewed and receive an admissions decision.





    How do I submit application documents like letters of recommendation and transcripts through the StandOut Admissions Network?
  


The StandOut Admissions Network application has free, built-in tools that allow you to request that letters of recommendation and transcripts be sent directly from teachers and counselors to your desired schools. You will be able to request and direct these items at any point in the application process, even after your application has been submitted. Once submitted by your teacher/counselor, the documents will appear in your Locker as received and you can include them when submitting your application, however, you cannot view or edit these items.
UMD will still accept application materials submitted through Naviance, Parchment and mail. For a list of acceptable submission methods, review our Submitting Documents page. Items submitted outside of the StandOut Admissions Network can take up to two weeks to process and reflect in the Application Tracker.





    Will UMD superscore my standardized test scores?
  


Yes, we superscore both the SAT and ACT. We use the highest subscores from the SAT and ACT in our review of your application, so it is to your benefit to submit all of your test scores. Please note that we will accept scores from the redesigned SAT, first administered in March 2016, but these scores will not be combined with scores from the old SAT.





    Is the writing portion of the SAT/ACT required? What about subject tests?
  


No, we do not require subject tests or scores from the writing sections of the SAT or ACT. Even if these scores are sent to us, they are not one of the 24 factors we review for admission.




      Test Optional
    



    Is UMD test-optional and, if so, what does test-optional mean?
  


Yes. UMD is currently test-optional and has extended this policy through to the Spring and Fall 2025 application cycles. This means that students applying between now and Fall 2025 will not be required to submit standardized test scores. Students can decide whether or not to include SAT/ACT scores with their application.





    Do I need to submit my scores if I’m a transfer student with less than 30 credits?
  


Traditionally, students who completed fewer than 30 semester or 45 quarter hours at the time of application, would need to submit their SAT and/or ACT scores. However, UMD is currently test-optional which means you have the option to choose whether or not you would like your test scores considered as a part of your application review.





    Why is UMD offering test-optional admission?
  


UMD first implemented its test-optional policy due to the limitations of testing in some areas hardest hit by the COVID-19 pandemic. UMD is currently assessing the impact of this policy on our students and the admission process to inform its standardized test score requirement for application cycles beyond Fall 2025.





    How do I indicate that I would like my application to be evaluated with or without my test scores?
  


You will be able to indicate your test-optional status on your application.





    How will UMD evaluate students who do not choose to have their test scores considered as a part of their application?
  


The Admission Committee uses a holistic, full-file review. This means the Committee will consider all factors of your application including grades earned in academic coursework, trends in your grades, your performance in honors, International Baccalaureate and Advanced Placement, A/AS level courses (when available in your school), your letters of recommendation, your essay, extracurricular activities and other achievements.




      After Submitting Your Application
    



    How do I know if my application materials have been received?
  


When you indicate that you are applying to UMD in StandOut Admissions Network, you will have access to your Checklist, which tracks your progress toward completing UMD’s application. It can take up to two weeks for documents submitted outside of the platform to process and reflect in your Checklist.
Once you have submitted your application, you will see an in-platform pop up notifying you that your submission was successful. You will also receive an email from the Office of Undergraduate Admissions confirming that your application has been submitted. Neither of these notifications guarantee that the submitted application was complete.
It is the applicant's responsibility to confirm receipt of all materials listed on the application checklist. Applicants will not receive any individual notifications regarding missing documents. 





    I submitted my standardized test scores more than 10 business days ago, but it does not appear that UMD received them. Why is that?
  


Standardized test scores can take several weeks to process and be received by our office. Please confirm that the testing agency submitted your scores to the University of Maryland, College Park, using the SAT code 5814 or ACT code 1746. Applicants often send their scores to other institutions in the University System of Maryland by mistake.
If your scores were sent to the University of Maryland, College Park, confirm that the first, middle and last names indicated on your test are the same as those used on your application. Different spellings can result in scores not matching with application files.
If you have confirmed both of these details and still have questions, please email us at ApplyMaryland@umd.edu for assistance.





    If I submit new test scores and/or application materials after the deadline, will they be reviewed with the rest of my application?
  


Only materials received or postmarked by the deadline will be reviewed for admission. We cannot guarantee that new scores or materials received or postmarked after the deadline will be reviewed as part of your application





    I made an error with my social security number. What should I do?
  


If you listed the incorrect social security number on your application, please email us at ApplyMaryland@umd.edu using the subject line "SSN Error" and include your full name, date of birth and a message regarding the mistake. Do not include your corrected number or a copy of your card in your email to our office. Once we receive your email, we will provide you with next steps for resolving this issue.
If you intend to apply for financial aid using the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA), it is important that you include your social security number on your application to ensure your FAFSA information is processed correctly. 





    My demographic information has changed since submitting my application. How can I correct this?
  


Please email us at ApplyMaryland@umd.edu using the subject line "App Demographic Info Changes". In the body of the email, please write your full name, date of birth and the high school you attend along with any demographic information that should be updated.





    How will I know when my admission decision is available for review?
  


We will send you an email to notify you when your admission decision is ready on the StandOut Admissions Network platform. Follow the instructions listed in the email to view your admission decision online. For security purposes, please note that we cannot reveal admission decisions over the phone.
If you are offered admission to UMD, you will also receive a general welcome letter from our office in the mail a few days later.




      Re-Applying to UMD
    



    I submitted a new online application, is there anything else I need to do?
  


Yes. Please email us using the subject line Re-Applying Transfer Student to request that any previously submitted, but still required, materials (such as transcripts and/or test scores) are matched with your new application. In your email, please include your first and last name and your date of birth, along with your request. Any new transcripts, test scores and other required materials must be submitted by the appropriate deadline.





    What materials do we keep? How do I know if more materials are needed?
  


We keep a record of test scores and transcripts you submitted for previous applications. You must submit any new transcripts and/or test scores that were not available when you last applied.





    I attended UMD in the past, or took a leave of absence, and now I would like to return to the university. What should I do?
  


If you are interested in returning to UMD after a period of dismissal or withdrawal, then you must complete a re-enrollment application. For more information about the re-enrollment process, please visit the Student Success Office website.





    I was denied in the past. What does that mean for my future application?
  


Students who previously applied and were not offered admission, must complete a new transfer application. This will require that new materials be submitted in order for the application to be reviewed.





    I was offered admission previously but declined and now I am re-applying to UMD. Will this hurt or strengthen my new application.
  


Students who previously declined an offer of admission to UMD, must complete a new application. The previously submitted application will have no bearing on the review of the new application.





    Does applying as a non-degree student (prior to applying as a degree-seeking student) increase my chances of being admitted?
  


No. We will complete a holistic review utilizing our 24 different factors when reviewing degree-seeking applicants.




      Costs & Aid
    



    What is the cost of tuition?
  


Visit the Office of Student Financial Aid website to review the estimated tuition and fees for UMD.





    How do I apply for merit and need-based financial aid?
  


All students who apply by the March 1 early action deadline for fall semester admission are automatically reviewed for all merit scholarships. No separate application is required. Students seeking need-based financial aid should complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA).





    When is the FAFSA deadline and what is UMD's school code?
  


UMD's priority deadline for submitting the 2024-25 FAFSA is March 1, 2024. Our school code is 002103.





    Aside from merit scholarships and submitting the FAFSA, what are other options for financing my education?
  


There are various types of financial aid available at UMD which can be classified as either need-based, meaning you and your family are not able to cover education expenses, or non-need based, which generally refers to aid you receive based on merit or qualification. 





    How and when will I find out if I received a scholarship?
  


Merit scholarship award notifications are released several weeks following each early action decision release. For fall admission early action applicants, notifications will be released by the end of May. For spring admission early action applicants, notifications will be released by early November. Students receiving scholarships will be notified via mail or email about their award. Some scholarships require an on-campus interview.





    What are the residency requirements for in-state tuition?
  


In order to qualify for in-state tuition, you must prove that you (or your parent/guardian if you're a financially dependent student) are a financially contributing citizen of the state of Maryland and have been so for at least one full year (12 consecutive months). To demonstrate eligibility for Maryland residency, you must submit the residency questionnaire portion of the admission application. Residency can be determined by factors such as holding a Maryland driver’s license, paying Maryland taxes and proving that the primary reason for living in Maryland is not to attend the university. For the full policy, please visit the Office of the Registrar's website.





    I have a relative who is a veteran. Can these benefits be applied to my tuition costs?
  


You may be eligible to receive these benefits at UMD. Information regarding veteran benefits can be found on the Office of the Registrar website. 
We do not need proof of military service and other related documentation until after you are offered admission to the university. 















      There is a lot more to learn about UMD, so let's stay in touch!
    






Join Our Mailing List







Connect

















              Undergraduate Admissions
            

                  Mitchell Building
                

                  7999 Regents Dr.
                

                  College Park, MD 20742
                


1-800-422-5867
ApplyMaryland@umd.edu



























Majors & Minors


Student Life


Admissions Requirements


Application Deadlines
Application Deadlines


Tuition & Aid




              Information For:
            

Prospective Students


Parents & Families


Counselors & Advisors
Counselors & Advisors


Admitted Students










Visit UMD






Apply Now






Connect









umd.edu


Privacy Policy


Web Accessibility


        © 2023 UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND
      









