















Terp Housing | Department of Resident Life | University of Maryland










      Skip to main content
    














Main Menu




About Us


Vision, Mission, & Values


Director's Welcome


DEIJ Commitment


Staff Directory


Res Life Scholarships


Contact Us




Terp Housing


Apply for Housing


Rates & Fees


Room Layouts & Tours


Residence Halls


Additional Housing Options


Programs & Communities


Moving & Breaks


Mail & Packages


Maintenance & Repairs


Important Dates




Safety & Resources


Community Living Handbook


Safety & Security


Alcohol, Fire & Other Policies


Health & Wellness


Student Rights & Responsibilities


Sustainability Resources


Academic Success


Assistance & Support Animals


Gold Code




Campus Life


Dining Plans


Campus Map


Get Involved


Orientation


Things to do at UMD




Join Our Team


Undergraduate Employment


Graduate Employment


Staff Openings


Res Life Alumni Network
















Step Into Your New Home!
There's nothing like bonding with your floormates and creating lifelong friendships when living on-campus! Elevate your Maryland experience by living in one of our residence halls, offering traditional style, semi-suite, suite, and apartment options. 

          Welcome New Terps!
      





























Your Guide to Terp Housing






















82%
students live in traditional-style halls with furnished double, triple, or quad rooms and communal bathrooms





8%
students live in furnished, air-conditioned apartments with a living room and fully-equipped kitchen





10%
students live in suites, similar to apartments, without a kitchen





View previous stat



View next stat


















RATES & FEES
View our room rates and learn about Terp Payment Plan options

          2023-2024 Housing Fees
       








APPLICATION PROCESS
Learn how to apply, steps to complete your agreement, and the room selection process

          Applying for Housing
       








ROOM LAYOUTS & TOURS
Explore our traditional residence halls, apartments and suites with photos and 360 virtual tours

          Take a Peek Inside Our Rooms
       


























The Maryland Residential Experience
Our Residence Halls are home to most first-year and second-year undergraduate students. We have traditional, semi-suite, suite, and apartment options available.
Residence Hall Living Overview 


          Additional Housing Options
       




















Benefits of Living on Campus












Previous slide


1
					of
					5


Next slide








Be a part of a special Terp community


Find Your Squad
There's nothing like bonding with your floormates and creating lifelong friendships when living on-campus. Walk the halls and meet someone new.







Be a part of a special Terp community


Make the Grade
Discover quiet study spaces and collaborative learning groups within your residence hall community. You'll be surrounded by students experiencing similar journeys and have support when you need it.







Be a part of a special Terp community


Location, Location, Location
Roll out of bed and head to class. Be within steps of where you need to be with prices that meet your preferences & budget.







Be a part of a special Terp community


Here For You
Have a maintenance/facility issue? Need help navigating campus resources or support with a conflict? We got you covered 24/7!







Be a part of a special Terp community


Do Your Thing — Be Involved
There's always something going on!  From hall/community programs to athletic and campus events, to leadership roles and on-campus employment, your calendar will be full and your skills will soar!





















Our Communities

























CAMBRIDGE COMMUNITY
Home to 1,400 students, five residence halls, and the College Park Scholars Living-Learning Program

          Explore Cambridge Community
       








DENTON COMMUNITY
Home to 1,617 students, three residence halls, and four Living-Learning Programs: BioFire, Carillon Community, Flexus, Virtus

          Explore Denton Community
       








ELLICOTT COMMUNITY
Home to 1,673 students, three residence halls, and the Gemstone and Integrated life sciences Living-Learning Programs

          Explore Ellicott Community
       








HERITAGE COMMUNITY
Home to 902 students, two residence halls, and the University Honors Living-Learning Program

          Explore Heritage Community
       








OAKLAND COMMUNITY
Home to 709 students (the most for any one residence hall on campus!)

          Explore Oakland Community
       








LEONARDTOWN COMMUNITY
Home to 392 students and six three-story brick garden apartment buildings

          Explore Leonardtown Community
       








NORTH HILL COMMUNITY
Home to 1,581 students, 10 residence halls, and eight Living-Learning Programs

          Explore North Hill Community
       








SOUTH HILL COMMUNITY
Home to 1,540 students, 14 residence halls, and the Washington Quad - a great spot for studying, relaxing, and recreation

          Explore South Hill Community
       
















































Important Dates
January 24: Spring Semester Classes BeginFebruary 26: Deadline to Submit Returning Student Residence Hall Housing AgreementMarch 15: Res Halls Close for Spring BreakMarch 16-23: Spring BreakMarch 24: Res Halls Re-Open

          View the Residential Calendar
       
















Mail & Packages
Get your mail and package delivered right to your residence hall or service desk!


          Mailing Format & Street Addresses 
       













About


Apply


Terp Housing


Housing Portal


Contact Us


Site Map








Department of Resident Life | University of Maryland
7626 Regents Drive, 2101 Annapolis Hall, College Park, MD 20742
301-314-2100
 · 
reslife@umd.edu





Visit our Twitter





Visit our Facebook





Visit our Instagram





Visit our Youtube












UMD.edu


Web Accessibility


Privacy Notice





Back to Top






