







Office of Undergraduate Admissions | Freshman Merit Scholarships





































Skip to main content













Undergraduate  Admissions




















Visit UMD





Apply Now





Connect





Search







Academics 







All Programs


Colleges & Schools




Limited Enrollment Programs




LEP Admission for Current Students







        Want more information about our majors?
      

        Academics
      






Student Life






        Want to learn more about life as a Terp?
      

        Student Life
      



Housing & Dining


Student Support & Safety


Get Involved on Campus


Find Your Community







How To Apply







Freshman Applicants


Transfer Applicants




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program FAQs






International Applicants




English Language Proficiency
Obtaining a Visa
Financial Certification




Shady Grove Applicants




Shady Grove Terp Transfer Partnership






Application Deadlines


Admission Review Process & Factors


Application FAQs




Freshman Application FAQs
Transfer Application FAQ
Essay Questions
Submitting Documents







        Ready to apply?
      

        How to Apply
      






Tuition & Aid






        Need more information on cost of attendance at UMD,  financing your education and merit scholarships?
      

        Tuition & Aid
      



Cost of Attendance


Freshman Merit Scholarships


Transfer Merit Scholarships




Frederick Douglass Scholarship




Office of Student Financial Aid


















Home
Tuition & Aid

        Freshman Merit Scholarships
      






      Tuition & Aid
    

Cost of Attendance



      Freshman Merit Scholarships
    



Transfer Merit Scholarships




Frederick Douglass Scholarship




Office of Student Financial Aid




              Freshman Merit Scholarships
            


We are dedicated to enrolling the most talented and academically promising students. And we offer generous merit scholarships to back that up.


Merit scholarships are offered to some of the University of Maryland’s most academically talented incoming students. These competitive scholarships are based on past academic performance and potential to excel at the university, not financial need.
Students who submit their admission application and all required materials by the November 1 early action deadline are automatically reviewed for merit scholarships. No additional application is necessary. Please review the sections below for information on eligibility and when students are notified of scholarships they have been offered.




    Scholarship Eligibility
  


In addition to submitting a completed undergraduate admission application and all required materials by the November 1 early action deadline, the following criteria also apply:
U.S. citizens and eligible non-citizens are considered for the university's merit scholarship.
Students admitted for the spring semester are not considered for merit scholarships.
Some scholarships require candidates to attend an interview prior to a final award being offered.
Additional eligibility requirements vary by scholarship and can be found in the sections below.
Detailed policies for all merit scholarships can be found on the Office of Student Financial Aid website. The following items also apply to the university’s undergraduate merit scholarships:
Students are only eligible to receive one merit scholarship award through the admission process.
All merit scholarship decisions are based on academic and applicant information at the time of applying, not current or ongoing work.
Students cannot appeal their merit scholarship decisions and the university does not match offers from other institutions.
Scholarships offered to admitted students who do not enroll at the University of Maryland cannot be disbursed to other students.






    Banneker/Key Scholarship
  


The Banneker/Key Scholarship is the most prestigious merit scholarship offered to incoming UMD freshmen. It can cover up to the full cost of tuition, mandatory fees, housing and food, a book allowance, and includes admission to the Honors College. In selecting Banneker/Key Scholars, the selection committee seeks to identify potential academic leaders, who as individuals and as a group, will enrich and benefit from the campus learning environment.
All freshman applicants who are admitted to the Honors College are considered for the Banneker/Key Scholarship. No additional application materials are required. The selection committee carefully reviews the entire application of each early action deadline applicant, and semifinalists for the scholarship are invited to an interview in late February or early March as part of the final selection process.
Banneker/Key Semifinalists will receive their interview invitation by March 1 and they will be notified of their final scholarship amount by April 1.





    President's Scholarship
  


The President’s Scholarship provides four-year scholarship ranging from $2,000 to $12,500 per year. Both in-state and out-of-state applicants are eligible to receive the President’s Scholarship. Recipients are identified through evaluation of admission application materials including academic achievement, extracurricular activities, awards, honors and an essay. Selected students will be notified of their scholarship by April 1.





    Dean's Scholarship
  


The Dean’s Scholarship offers an annual merit scholarship of $1,500 for freshman year or $4,500 per year for both freshman and sophomore years. The Dean’s Scholarship is not renewable, and only in-state applicants are eligible. Recipients are identified through evaluation of admission application materials including academic achievement, extracurricular activities, awards, honors and an essay. Each fall, roughly 400 new recipients of the Dean’s Scholarship are welcomed to the incoming class. Selected students will be notified of their scholarship by April 1.





      Additional Scholarship Resources
    

We are committed to providing you with helpful information and resources that can assist in making a UMD education affordable for you and your family. Students admitted to UMD have the ability to find and apply for external scholarships through our scholarship matching tool, Scholarship Universe.Additionally, several academic departments offer merit scholarships to their most promising students. You should contact the department, college or school directly for information about availability, eligibility, applications and deadlines.













      There is a lot more to learn about UMD, so let's stay in touch!
    






Join Our Mailing List







Connect

















              Undergraduate Admissions
            

                  Mitchell Building
                

                  7999 Regents Dr.
                

                  College Park, MD 20742
                


1-800-422-5867
ApplyMaryland@umd.edu



























Majors & Minors


Student Life


Admissions Requirements


Application Deadlines
Application Deadlines


Tuition & Aid




              Information For:
            

Prospective Students


Parents & Families


Counselors & Advisors
Counselors & Advisors


Admitted Students










Visit UMD






Apply Now






Connect









umd.edu


Privacy Policy


Web Accessibility


        © 2023 UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND
      









