







Office of Undergraduate Admissions | Admitted Students





































Skip to main content










Undergraduate  Admissions




















Visit UMD





Apply Now





Connect





Search







Academics 







All Programs


Colleges & Schools




Limited Enrollment Programs




LEP Admission for Current Students







        Want more information about our majors?
      

        Academics
      






Student Life






        Want to learn more about life as a Terp?
      

        Student Life
      



Housing & Dining


Student Support & Safety


Get Involved on Campus


Find Your Community







How To Apply







Freshman Applicants


Transfer Applicants




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program FAQs






International Applicants




English Language Proficiency
Obtaining a Visa
Financial Certification




Shady Grove Applicants




Shady Grove Terp Transfer Partnership






Application Deadlines


Admission Review Process & Factors


Application FAQs




Freshman Application FAQs
Transfer Application FAQ
Essay Questions
Submitting Documents







        Ready to apply?
      

        How to Apply
      






Tuition & Aid






        Need more information on cost of attendance at UMD,  financing your education and merit scholarships?
      

        Tuition & Aid
      



Cost of Attendance


Freshman Merit Scholarships


Transfer Merit Scholarships




Frederick Douglass Scholarship




Office of Student Financial Aid



























            Admitted Students
          

Congratulations on your admission! We’re excited to show you what being a University of Maryland student is all about.








Home

        Admitted Students
      








      #NowATerp RESOURCES
    





Welcome to your one-stop shop for next steps as an admitted student. We encourage you to reference our checklists and frequently asked questions as often as you need!
‎






      Admitted Student Checklists
    





Choose from the following checklists based on your student type and semester of admission. Our checklists contain everything you need to make your enrollment official as well as information on orientation, housing and more.












      Fall Freshman
    

If you applied as a freshman and were admitted for the fall semester, this checklist is for you!


View My Checklist
Checklist for freshman students admitted for the fall semester.









      Spring Freshman
    

If you applied as a freshman and were admitted for the spring semester, this checklist is for you!


View My Checklist
Checklist for freshman students who were admitted for the spring semester.









      Shady Grove
    

If you applied as a transfer student and were admitted to the Shady Grove location, this checklist is for you!


View My Checklist
Checklist for transfer students admitted to the Shady Grove location.









      Fall Transfer
    

If you applied as a transfer student and were admitted for the fall semester, this checklist is for you!


View My Checklist
Checklist for transfer students who were admitted for the fall semester.









      Spring Transfer
    


If you applied as a transfer student and were admitted for the spring semester, this checklist is for you!



View My Checklist
Checklist for transfer students admitted to the spring semester.












              Admission Decision FAQs
            

Have questions about your admission decision? You've come to the right place. Save time by reviewing answers to these common questions before contacting our office.



Freshman Admission Decision FAQs
Admission decision FAQs for freshman students.


Transfer Admission Decision FAQs
Admission decision FAQs for transfer students.
























        VISIT UMD
      

If you haven't already, we encourage you to visit campus! Seeing a school in person can help you visualize what college life will be like and give you a chance to meet current students.


PLAN YOUR VISIT
View upcoming tours and information sessions on our calendar.




        GET IN TOUCH
      

If you can't seem to find answers to your questions, feel free to reach out to the admission representative for your area! We're happy to help.


Meet Our Admission Reps
Get connected to the admission representative for your area.

















      There is a lot more to learn about UMD, so let's stay in touch!
    






Join Our Mailing List







Connect

















              Undergraduate Admissions
            

                  Mitchell Building
                

                  7999 Regents Dr.
                

                  College Park, MD 20742
                


1-800-422-5867
ApplyMaryland@umd.edu



























Majors & Minors


Student Life


Admissions Requirements


Application Deadlines
Application Deadlines


Tuition & Aid




              Information For:
            

Prospective Students


Parents & Families


Counselors & Advisors
Counselors & Advisors


Admitted Students










Visit UMD






Apply Now






Connect









umd.edu


Privacy Policy


Web Accessibility


        © 2023 UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND
      









