









Cyber-Physical Systems Engineering | Cyber-Physical Systems Engineering

















Skip to main content


Shape Copy 6Shape Copy 18ShapeShapenext month copynext month


Cyber-Physical Systems Engineering
Menu


Overview

Program Admissions

Career Pathways

 Curriculum

Course Descriptions

Events

Contact







The Cyber-Physical Systems Engineering (CPSE) program at the Universities of Shady Grove




  ​The Cyber-Physical Systems Engineering (CPSE) program based at the Universities at Shady Grove is an exciting new engineering program offered by the Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering at the University of Maryland, College Park.
CPSE Introduction Video (Formerly Referred to as ESIOT in Video)






OverviewSeperator


  Future-Proof your Engineering Career! 

  Future-Proof your Engineering Career! 
  The University of Maryland - the flagship campus of the University System of Maryland, offers an excellent Cyber-Physical Systems Engineering program. This field combines the core elements of computer science, electrical engineering, and computer engineering to design and develop systems that integrate physical processes with software and hardware components. Cyber-physical systems are becoming increasingly important in various industries, such as transportation, healthcare, environmental resilience, security and manufacturing, which is anticipated to further grow in the coming years. 

At the University of Maryland, you can expect to learn about cutting edge topics such as embedded systems, real-time computing, robotics, machine learning and cybersecurity. The program will provide you the strong foundation in both theoretical knowledge and practical skills, enabling you to tackle the complex challenges of designing and managing cyber-physical systems.



  Hands-on Experience is the Best Way to Learn

  Hands-on Experience is the Best Way to Learn
  The University of Maryland also has great resources and opportunities for students, such as research projects, internships, and collaboration with industry partners. The classes are small and hands-on. These experiences can further enhance your learning and provide valuable hands-on experience. Most importantly, scholarships and financial assistance are widely available. All students who have graduated through the CPSE program have found gainful employment in the digital realm, because the workforce demand is great. Our graduates hit the ground running with the hands-on training. 

The CPSE program has recently applied for ABET accreditation - which we expect to be granted and making the program the first in the nation.  This is the future, and we invite you to look into this program. 

An even better advantage is that the program is offered exclusively at the Universities at Shady Grove, with ample resources and accommodations for students uncommon in the main campus. USG is in the midst of a transformation that includes the creation of the Energy and Technology Hub that promises close cooperation between the academe, employers and policy makers to develop outstanding workforce. 

Browse through our site. If you have any specific questions about the program or need assistance with anything else, just ask!












Program Admissions
  CPSE Admissions Information
The Cyber-Physical Systems Engineering (CPSE) major is a two-year, cohort-based program with a pre-set class schedule starting in the fall semester.  To be eligible for admission into the program,  students must satisfactorily complete all lower-level general education requirements,  A. James Clark School of Engineering LEP admissions requirements, and CPSE prerequisite coursework. 
Watch the CPSE Introduction Video on the left to learn more, and book a meeting with the CPSE Program Coordinator to plan your pathway into the Cyber-Physical Systems Engineering (CPSE) program! NOTE: CPSE is referred to as "ESIOT" (The program's former name) in this video.
Learn More Apply Now!  








  CurriculumSeperator
 The Bachelor of Science in Cyber-Physical Systems Engineering (CPSE) provides students with a solid foundation in key emerging technologies of the Internet of Things (loT), the ability to integrate devices into complete loT systems, and an understanding of how loT fits within the wider context of information and communications technology, including data analytics and cloud computing. The unique program curriculum trains students in hardware and software design, with specializations in the areas of networks, cybersecurity, and machine learning, and offers mixed course instruction of theories and real-world hands-on experience.
The major requires 122 credits for graduation, of which 60 are transferred into the program and 62 credits are completed within the two years (four semesters) at The Universities at Shady Grove. 

Course Requirements Course Descriptions 














  Contact us by email: es-sg@umd.edu
or by phone: 240-665-6531












      © 2024      Privacy Policy

Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
A. James Clark School of Engineering
University of Maryland







