







Office of Undergraduate Admissions | Admission Review Process &…





































Skip to main content













Undergraduate  Admissions




















Visit UMD





Apply Now





Connect





Search







Academics 







All Programs


Colleges & Schools




Limited Enrollment Programs




LEP Admission for Current Students







        Want more information about our majors?
      

        Academics
      






Student Life






        Want to learn more about life as a Terp?
      

        Student Life
      



Housing & Dining


Student Support & Safety


Get Involved on Campus


Find Your Community







How To Apply







Freshman Applicants


Transfer Applicants




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program FAQs






International Applicants




English Language Proficiency
Obtaining a Visa
Financial Certification




Shady Grove Applicants




Shady Grove Terp Transfer Partnership






Application Deadlines


Admission Review Process & Factors


Application FAQs




Freshman Application FAQs
Transfer Application FAQ
Essay Questions
Submitting Documents







        Ready to apply?
      

        How to Apply
      






Tuition & Aid






        Need more information on cost of attendance at UMD,  financing your education and merit scholarships?
      

        Tuition & Aid
      



Cost of Attendance


Freshman Merit Scholarships


Transfer Merit Scholarships




Frederick Douglass Scholarship




Office of Student Financial Aid


















Home

        Admission Review Process & Factors
      






              Admission Review Process & Factors
            


Our admission process has one mission: to identify applicants, who as individuals and as a group, will enrich and benefit from the campus learning environment and the entire student body.


Our admission committee is comprised of a team of professionals who undertake an individualized, rigorous and holistic review of each application, assessing academic merit, achievements and potential in the context of the opportunities and challenges the student faced.
We are charged with admitting and enrolling the most talented, diverse and interesting class possible. With such a large and strong pool of students to review, our task is daunting—but the results are impressive. Our students are smart, involved, curious and innovative.




    Holistic Review Process
  


The University of Maryland admission review process is guided by the principles outlined in the Statement of the Philosophy of Undergraduate Admissions. In keeping with this philosophy, the admission review factors listed above will allow the Admission Committee to identify those applicants, who as individuals and as a group, will enrich and benefit from the campus learning environment, and thus benefit the entire student body.
The undergraduate admissions process is rigorous and individualized. As the university must make fine distinctions among large numbers of highly qualified applicants, the ability to consistently assess all information presented in the application becomes increasingly important. Therefore, the university employs a holistic review process that engages the expertise of professional educators whose judgments—based upon consideration of each applicant’s credentials measured by all admissions criteria—build an entering class that will best complement the existing student body and meet the university’s mission objectives.
In this context, academic merit is assessed on the basis of each applicant’s achievements and potential in a broad range of academic categories, as influenced by the opportunities and challenges faced by the applicant. These categories include:
Educational PerformancePotential for College SuccessPotential to Promote Beneficial Educational Outcomes and to Contribute to Campus and Community LifeStudents’ Persistence and Commitment to Educational Success.





    24 Review Factors
  


At UMD, we value all of your strengths and talents. We know there is more to you than grades and SAT scores. While they are important, we also want to know about your interests and background and what makes you unique. We review all application components and our thorough review process considers more than 24 factors.
Each category of the holistic review is assessed by a combination of quantitative and qualitative factors. These factors are flexibly applied, so the listing does not reflect order of importance.
High school achievement
Grades in academic subjects
Progression of performance
Breadth of life experiences
Geographic origin
Gender
SAT I or ACT scores*
Work experience
Recognition of special achievements
Extenuating circumstances
Socio-economic background
Written expression of ideas (as demonstrated in the essay)
Rank in class (actual or percentile)
Extracurricular activities
Special talents or skills
Community involvement
Community service
Demonstrated leadership
Learning differences
Quality of coursework
Residency status
Family educational background
Academic endeavors outside of the classroom
English as a second language/Language spoken at home

*UMD has decided to extend its practice to make SAT and ACT scores optional through to the Spring and Fall 2025 application cycles. For more information please review our Application FAQs.















      There is a lot more to learn about UMD, so let's stay in touch!
    






Join Our Mailing List







Connect

















              Undergraduate Admissions
            

                  Mitchell Building
                

                  7999 Regents Dr.
                

                  College Park, MD 20742
                


1-800-422-5867
ApplyMaryland@umd.edu



























Majors & Minors


Student Life


Admissions Requirements


Application Deadlines
Application Deadlines


Tuition & Aid




              Information For:
            

Prospective Students


Parents & Families


Counselors & Advisors
Counselors & Advisors


Admitted Students










Visit UMD






Apply Now






Connect









umd.edu


Privacy Policy


Web Accessibility


        © 2023 UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND
      









