




















Secondary Education, Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) or Bachelor of Science (B.S.): Social Studies Area of Concentration | UMD College of Education










      Skip to main content
    















Toggle navigation







Main navigation


About

Open





College Profile

Open





Strategic Plan


COE Centennial





Office of the Dean

Open





Meet the Dean


Leadership Team


Dean's Lecture Series


Board of Visitors


Shared Governance





Administrative Offices

Open





Assessment Office


Dean's Business Office


EdTerps Learning Academy


Educational Technology Services


Marketing and Communications


Office of Advancement





Contact Us


Visit


EdTerpsEngage





Academics

Open





Departments

Open





Counseling, Higher Education, and Special Education


Human Development and Quantitative Methodology


Teaching and Learning, Policy and Leadership





Programs

Open





Undergraduate


Masters


Doctoral


Teacher Certification


Certificate Programs


Off-campus Programs





Accreditation


Rankings





Admissions

Open





Financial Aid & Scholarships

Open





UMD Financial Aid


COE Scholarships


Freshmen Scholarships


AmeriCorps Scholarships


Graduate Funding


Transfer Student Scholarships


Federal and State Aid





Programs

Open





Undergraduate


Masters


Doctoral


Teacher Certification


Certificate Programs


Off-campus Programs








People

Open





Faculty


Staff


Students


Find an Expert





Research

Open





Centers and Institutes


Labs


Research News


Terrapin EdTalks


COE Research Office


Find an Expert





Students

Open





Student Services

Open





Undergraduate Students


Graduate Students


Contact Us





Student & Campus Resources


Financial Aid & Scholarships


Student Groups


Commencement





Alumni & Giving

Open





Get Involved


Alumni News


Giving





News & Events

Open





Newsroom


In the News


For the Media


Endeavors Magazine


Events





Diversity

Open





#EdTerpsDialogue


EDUC TerrapinSTRONG


Council on Racial Equity and Justice (COREJ)


COE Hate and Bias Policy












Search


Find





Secondary Menu


Give


Apply




Social Media


Facebook


Twitter


Instagram


YouTube















Secondary Education, Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) or Bachelor of Science (B.S.): Social Studies Area of Concentration













EPL

TLPL







      Overview
  




Learn. Engage. Inspire. You make the difference!
Did you know the demand for secondary teachers is growing and will continue to grow by 15 percent over the next decade? Now is a great time to become a Social Studies teacher!
As a secondary Social Studies teacher (grades 7-12), you will help young people:


Learn to read and evaluate sources carefully and sharpen their skills to discern truth from falsehood


Seek multiple perspectives and build reasoned arguments about what to believe


Question simple narratives and listen for missing or misrepresented perspectives


Engage in civil, evidence-based discourse on critical issues


Why should you seek certification in Secondary Social Studies at the University of Maryland?
The Secondary Education Social Studies Area of Concentration program offers students a cutting-edge teacher preparation experience. Our program allows you students to gain critical knowledge and skills to become an effective teacher in our diverse and multicultural society.
Once admitted to the program, you will:


Learn a social justice-oriented approach to teaching social studies and supporting all students to succeed


Practice making social studies content and skills relevant, engaging, and transformative for students.


Learn alongside a range of experts in social studies education, including College of Education faculty, university supervisors, and mentor teachers


Work closely over the course of an academic year with an excellent history, government, or economics teacher at one of our partner schools


We have two pathways for you to become a Social Studies teacher
The undergraduate pathway is designed for incoming freshmen, transfer students and current UMD students who are looking to either change majors or to add a fifth year to their undergraduate experience and earn a Master's in Education degree.
The graduate pathway is designed for individuals who already hold a bachelor's degree in a related discipline. This "Master's Certification" pathway leads to a Master's in Education degree and a license to teach in Maryland--and can be completed in one year.  
Learn more about both pathways.






      Admissions Requirements
  



Undergraduate admission information
Once admitted to the University, students in the College of Education must meet the Selective Admissions requirements in order to proceed into the Professional portion of the Social Studies Education program. The Selective Admissions requirements for the Social Studies Education program are as follows:
Academic Requirements

Completion of a minimum of 45 credits
Cumulative UM GPA of 2.75 or higher; 3.0 GPA is recommended for best consideration
Completion of lower-level Fundamental English requirement with a “C-” or better
Completion of lower-level Fundamental Math requirement with a “C-” or better
Minimum passing scores on a Basic Skills Tests (see advisor for details)

Gateway Courses

Satisfactory completion of EDCI 410  with a “B-” or better
Satisfactory completion of the upper-level content area courses.  Consult Advisor for content area GPA requirement.

Experiential Requirements

Prior experience in the education field with youth in the age range you intend to teach
A written goal statement
Three letters of recommendation (one must be from a faculty member or instructor)
Satisfactory rating on the College of Education Foundational Competencies

 





      How to Apply
  



STEP ONE: Apply for undergraduate admission to the University.
       Once admitted to the University, proceed to Step Two.
STEP TWO:  Please submit your application to the Professional Teacher Education Program online using this site.





      Advising for Prospective Students
  



 Please contact the Office of Student Services, ed-advising@umd.edu, or 301-405-2364.





      Advising for Current Students
  



For more information visit the COE Undergraduate Advising website.





      Financial Aid/Scholarships
  



College of Education Scholarship opportunities





      Program Benchmarks/Requirements
  



Students will work closely with faculty, mentors and peers to observe, analyze and reflect on instruction. This will occur in methods courses, seminars and during the course of a yearlong internship experience.  The undergraduate internship experience is broken into two parts:

Fall Senior Year: 1 day a week placement with an experienced mentor at two area schools (one middle and one high school experience) where the intern has the opportunity to observe, reflect and participate in classroom activities.
Spring Senior Year: 5 day a week full-time placement where the intern will take on full responsibilities of a classroom teacher including planning, instruction and assessment of students with the support of a veteran mentor teacher, supervisor and program coordinator.

Specific information on requirements for each double major option can be found on the following pages:

Secondary Social Sciences Education / History Double Major
Secondary Social Sciences Education / Government Double Major
Secondary Social Sciences Education / Geography Double Major

Program Requirements and Major Four Year Plans





      Program Contacts
  



If you would like additional information about the Secondary Social Studies Education program, or help in determining if the program is a good fit for your interests and skills, please reach out to:
Alison Jovanovic, Social Studies PDS Coordinator (ajovanov@umd.edu)





      Labs
  



As a current or  aspiring social studies educator, we welcome you to familiarize yourself with innovative social studies education resources developed by our faculty. Learn about the Difficult History Project at the link below to see an example of how primary sources can serve as a focal point for teaching about slavery in Maryland.

Difficult History Project






      Policies, Handbooks, and Forms
  



Undergraduate Forms, Policies and Procedures 
 










Student Spotlight






Alexis Anderson
 COE student Alexis Anderson received a prestigious 2020-2021 Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship from the U.S. State...



















Footer


Contact us


Faculty & Staff Resources


Make a Gift


Search


Sitemap


Web Accessibility


Privacy Policy




 University of Maryland
College Park, MD 20742
Copyright © 2022 University of Maryland



Social Media


Facebook


Twitter


Instagram


YouTube
















