










Bachelor of Arts | Department of Classics





      Skip to main content
    


Skip to main content









Apply


Give


Trigger Search



Search this Site

Go



        Menu
        
Trigger Menu









Close

Search this Site

Go



Primary Header Navigation


ARHU Home


Home


About


Chair's Message


Why Classics?




Academic Programs


Bachelor of Arts


Advising


Modern Greek


Scholarships & Prizes


Minors


Classical Mythology


Latin Language and Literature


Greek Language and Culture


Archaeology






Master of Arts


Graduate Admissions


Graduate Requirements






Beyond the Classroom


Study Abroad


Internships


Phi Beta Kappa


Student Organizations


Careers


Undergraduate Alumni Careers


Graduate Alumni Careers






Research


Classical Influences in America








Secondary Header Navigation


Directory


Calendar


News


Contact


Current Students


Prospective Students


Faculty & Staff


Alumni











Bachelor of Arts






Breadcrumb


Home


Academic Programs











Choose to expand your horizons with an interdisciplinary humanities major while polishing your practical skills.
















University of Maryland’s Classics degree enables you to examine the cultural nuances of ancient Greece and Rome, and, in the process, gain deep knowledge of their histories, languages, religions, politics and gender systems. 



Our classes emphasize the critical study of western civilization. In the process, students improve as analytical thinkers and skillful communicators—qualities crucial for any career or advanced academic work. Our graduates go on to work in law, education, medicine, information technology, and government service.  
The undergraduate curriculum offers three tracks: Classical Humanities, Latin, and a combined Latin and Greek track. Many of our courses can also be used to fulfill General Education and/or CORE requirements. Information on curriculum and requirements can be found below or in the University Catalog. 
All major requirements must be completed in addition to the College of Arts and Humanities requirements. 
 










Major Tracks 




Classical Humanities


 Latin


Latin and Greek 





Classical Humanities


Foundation Courses    

Select 12 credits at the 1xx-2xx level, at least 6 of which must be in Classics (CLAS courses)*

Advanced Courses    

Select eight courses at the 3xx-level or above, of which four must be in Classics and one must be the following**: 
	
CLAS409 Classics Capstone Seminar (to be taken in the junior or senior year)    



36 Total Credits
* The introductory Latin or Greek sequence (LATN101, LATN102, LATN201 or GREK101, GREK102, GREK201), if taken at College Park, fulfills this requirement. If LATN120 and LATN201 are taken at College Park, only one additional course at the 1xx-2xx level is required.  If no language is taken, four courses in English translation, including at least two in Classics, are required.  Students who are capable of working at a higher level may request departmental approval to substitute 3xx or 4xx-level courses for some of the introductory credits.
**As a special exception, either LATN201 or GREK201, intermediate Latin or Greek, may be counted as one of the advanced courses. Students are still required to fulfill the ARHU requirement of 45 3xx-4xx level credits.




 Latin



18 credits in LATN courses at the 2xx/3xx level
12 credits in LATN courses at the 4xx level or higher
9-12 credits in supporting courses at any level CLAS, GREK, or related fields such as HIST and ARTH
39 - 42 Total Credits





Latin and Greek 


Students can select from the two options below in addition to Supporting courses: 

Option 1:    
	
18 credits in LATN courses
12 credits in GREK courses*


Option 2:    
	
18 credits in GREK courses
12 credits in LATN courses*


Supporting courses **

39 Total Credits
*Students with no previous training in the second language may count introductory level courses as part of the 12-hour requirement.
**For example, CLAS170, HIST110, and a 3xx- or 4xx-level course in Greek or Roman history














Undergraduate Director 










                            
                Jorge 
                
                                       Bravo
                      


 Associate Professor and Director of Undergraduate Studies, Classics  


            1210F Marie Mount Hall
                            College Park
                                        MD,
                                        20742
                      
(301) 405-2360

















Related Links


Schedule an advising appointment


Discover opportunities beyond the classroom


Explore the graduate program




















													Department of Classics
													1210 Marie Mount Hall
												College Park, MD 20742
301.405.2013







Primary Footer Navigation


ARHU Home


Home


About


Academic Programs


Beyond the Classroom


Research








Secondary Footer Navigation


Apply


Calendar


Directory


Give


News












Follow Us





Facebook




Twitter




Instagram




Flickr




© 2024 University of Maryland

Log In
Privacy Policy
Web Accessibility













