







Office of Undergraduate Admissions | Get Involved on Campus





































Skip to main content













Undergraduate  Admissions




















Visit UMD





Apply Now





Connect





Search







Academics 







All Programs


Colleges & Schools




Limited Enrollment Programs




LEP Admission for Current Students







        Want more information about our majors?
      

        Academics
      






Student Life






        Want to learn more about life as a Terp?
      

        Student Life
      



Housing & Dining


Student Support & Safety


Get Involved on Campus


Find Your Community







How To Apply







Freshman Applicants


Transfer Applicants




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program FAQs






International Applicants




English Language Proficiency
Obtaining a Visa
Financial Certification




Shady Grove Applicants




Shady Grove Terp Transfer Partnership






Application Deadlines


Admission Review Process & Factors


Application FAQs




Freshman Application FAQs
Transfer Application FAQ
Essay Questions
Submitting Documents







        Ready to apply?
      

        How to Apply
      






Tuition & Aid






        Need more information on cost of attendance at UMD,  financing your education and merit scholarships?
      

        Tuition & Aid
      



Cost of Attendance


Freshman Merit Scholarships


Transfer Merit Scholarships




Frederick Douglass Scholarship




Office of Student Financial Aid


















Home

        Get Involved on Campus
      






              Get Involved on Campus
            


      Get Involved on Campus
    

There are over 800 student organizations to join on campus. If what you're looking for doesn't exist yet, create it! All you need is eight people with a shared interest.



      ROTC Services
    




ROTC


      Air Force
    

Trains and commissions the finest officer candidates by emphasizing Air Force core values, teaching followership and leadership skills and providing opportunities to broaden career choices.


UMD Air Force ROTC
UMD Air Force ROTC






ROTC


      Army
    

Produces officers of the highest caliber through diverse and expansive training opportunities, program outreach, leadership development, internships and longstanding networks.


UMD Army ROTC
UMD Army ROTC






ROTC


      Navy
    

Educates and trains qualified young men and women for service as commissioned officers in the United States Navy and Marine Corps and prepares them for leadership and management positions in an increasingly technical military environment.


UMD Naval ROTC
UMD Naval ROTC






      Greek Life
    

Scholarship, service and brother/sisterhood are hallmarks in UMD's Greek community. The Department of Fraternity and Sorority Life (DFSL) advises the chapters and their members of four governing councils: the Interfraternity Council (IFC), Multicultural Greek Council (MGC), National Pan-Hellenic Council (NPHC), and Panhellenic Association (PHA) in educational and leadership programming.




















Service Day at the Farm at UMD











Sports fans and the University of Maryland mascot, Testudo, getting into the spirit











Friendly competition at the Alumni Cup











Agriculture students enjoy an outdoor classroom day











Students participating in yoga.







      Athletics
    

From intramural and club sports to our Division I teams, Terps are active. You can rock-climb at the Eppley Recreation Center, jog around our scenic campus or swim laps in our Olympic-size pool. 
The Department of Intercollegiate Athletics provides hundreds of student-athletes a rewarding experience. Stretch your lung muscles by cheering on your favorite team, like our national-champion women’s field hockey team, and sit in the Xfinity Center’s student section during our hugely popular men’s and women’s basketball games—our student athletes love to see you there!





      Club Sports
    

Club Sports are student organizations, recognized by the Student Government Association (SGA). The Club Sports staff of University Recreation & Wellness oversees and advises all club sports. Many clubs compete against other universities, both on a regional and national level.


Learn more
Learn more about club sports






      Intramurals
    

Intramural Sports offers team, individual and dual sports as leagues. Players have a weekly regular season schedule followed by playoffs and single day or weekend long tournaments and events. 


Learn more
Learn more about intramural sports














        Resources
      




                Living-Learning Programs
              

Nothing connects students more than our highly regarded living-learning programs, where students with a common interest share residence halls, classrooms, faculty and friendships to dig deep into contemporary topics and get unique research experiences. Roughly half of all first-year students find their niche in one of these programs. To be considered for a living-learning program, you must apply for freshman admission by the November 1 early action deadline.


Learn More About Living-Learning Programs
Learn More About Living-Learning Programs




















      There is a lot more to learn about UMD, so let's stay in touch!
    






Join Our Mailing List







Connect

















              Undergraduate Admissions
            

                  Mitchell Building
                

                  7999 Regents Dr.
                

                  College Park, MD 20742
                


1-800-422-5867
ApplyMaryland@umd.edu



























Majors & Minors


Student Life


Admissions Requirements


Application Deadlines
Application Deadlines


Tuition & Aid




              Information For:
            

Prospective Students


Parents & Families


Counselors & Advisors
Counselors & Advisors


Admitted Students










Visit UMD






Apply Now






Connect









umd.edu


Privacy Policy


Web Accessibility


        © 2023 UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND
      









