







Office of Undergraduate Admissions | Transfer Applicants





































Skip to main content










Undergraduate  Admissions




















Visit UMD





Apply Now





Connect





Search







Academics 







All Programs


Colleges & Schools




Limited Enrollment Programs




LEP Admission for Current Students







        Want more information about our majors?
      

        Academics
      






Student Life






        Want to learn more about life as a Terp?
      

        Student Life
      



Housing & Dining


Student Support & Safety


Get Involved on Campus


Find Your Community







How To Apply







Freshman Applicants


Transfer Applicants




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program FAQs






International Applicants




English Language Proficiency
Obtaining a Visa
Financial Certification




Shady Grove Applicants




Shady Grove Terp Transfer Partnership






Application Deadlines


Admission Review Process & Factors


Application FAQs




Freshman Application FAQs
Transfer Application FAQ
Essay Questions
Submitting Documents







        Ready to apply?
      

        How to Apply
      






Tuition & Aid






        Need more information on cost of attendance at UMD,  financing your education and merit scholarships?
      

        Tuition & Aid
      



Cost of Attendance


Freshman Merit Scholarships


Transfer Merit Scholarships




Frederick Douglass Scholarship




Office of Student Financial Aid



























            Transfer Applicants
          

Transfer students play a pivotal role at the University of Maryland (UMD), where they bring unique perspectives from their college studies as well as a diversity of backgrounds, geographic origins and personal experiences.


Apply Now
Start your UMD application








Home

        Transfer Applicants
      








TRANSFER TO UMD






Apply as a transfer student if you are a high school graduate who has completed at least 12 semester hours or 18 quarter hours after high school graduation at a regionally accredited college or university.
Below you will find information on transfer application requirements and deadlines, a complete list of required application materials and more.









              Applicant Requirements
            

Admission to UMD is competitive and the number of students seeking admission exceeds the number who can be accommodated. Admission is based on the overall strength of the student's academic performance and is assessed through a holistic review. In accordance with the Maryland Higher Education Commission and Board of Regents transfer policies, certain applicants from Maryland public institutions are given special consideration and are admitted when space is available.
The university expects you, at a minimum, to meet the following requirements:





      High School
    

To be considered a transfer applicant, you must have graduated high school or have completion of high school equivalency.






      College Credits
    

You must complete at least 12 semester hours or 18 quarter hours at a regionally accredited college or university. (AP/IB credits or placement tests cannot be used toward this requirement.)
If you are in progress of completing 12 credits, please email us prior to submitting an application for guidance on how to complete your application. Email ApplyMaryland@umd.edu with the subject line "12 Credits In-Progress Transfer Applicant".






      College Courses
    

You are expected to have completed English Composition (the equivalent of UMD’s ENGL 101 course) and college-level mathematics (the equivalent of UMD’s Math 107 course or equivalent to the general education fundamental mathematics requirement).















      Choosing a Major
    

Whether you know exactly what you want to study or are still figuring it out, we encourage you to explore UMD's academic programs. As you explore you may see that some of our majors are considered Limited Enrollment Programs (LEP). These programs have limited space and, therefore, have more competitive admission criteria.
On the UMD application, you'll select a preferred major. This information will not impact whether or not you are admissible to the university. If you selected an LEP, you will also be reviewed by the specific program to determine admission to your preferred major.
While most students are admitted to their preferred major, some LEP applicants may not be. Students who are undecided or undeclared (working on getting into an LEP) will work with Letters & Sciences advisors to explore their interests or complete LEP gateway requirements.



























        Benefits of Applying Early Action
      

We strongly encourage you to apply early action to receive priority consideration for admission and merit-based scholarships. Your application must be complete by the early action deadline in order to be reviewed. Applications that are not complete by the early action deadline will be considered for the regular application deadline.




fall
                            Application Deadlines
            


                    March 1
                  
Early Action Deadline



                    June 1
                  
Regular Deadline




spring
                            Application Deadlines
            


                    August 1
                  
Early Action Deadline



                    November 15
                  
Regular Deadline





View All Application Deadlines
View All Application Deadlines













          Application Platform
        

Transfer students can apply to UMD using the StandOut Admissions Network. We encourage you to reference our frequently asked questions if you need help completing the UMD application, especially parts that focus on high school information. 


Transfer Application FAQs
Transfer Application FAQs








      Application Checklist
    





Utilize our application checklist to ensure you're submitting all required transfer application materials.






Before you get started, consider the following questions:Do you have non-U.S. academic records? | If you have non-U.S. academic records for post-secondary/university work, please review our international applicant requirements for instructions on submitting these records.Do you have a Joint Services Transcript? | If you have a Joint Services Transcript, please review the special audiences section of our Prospective Students page for information regarding U.S. veterans and transferrable credits.









                          Step
                        1




            Completed online application
          

The transfer application can be submitted online via the StandOut Admissions Network.
As part of the online application you will be required to submit a(n):
Essay | This is your opportunity to share your personality and experiences with the Admission Committee. Please use our transfer student essay prompt.
Activities and awards list or resume | Detail your efforts in the community, arts, leadership, athletics, family involvements, work experience and other extracurricular activities and hobbies in order of interest to you. This information can be submitted via the Activities/Experience section of the Profile or by uploading a separate document.
Nonrefundable application fee of $75 | When submitting your application you will be required to pay a $75 application fee on our secure website with a credit card unless you have received a fee waiver. Fee waivers must be submitted prior to application submission for consideration. We cannot accept cash or check payments.






                          Step
                        2




            Official copy of your college transcripts
          

Each institution you've attended must submit an official copy of your college transcripts listing all courses you have attempted. A final official transcript from your current institution must be sent upon completion of any courses in progress. Learn how transcripts can be submitted on our Submitting Documents page.
If you have non-U.S. academic records for post-secondary work, please review our international applicant requirements as they might apply to you.






                          Step
                        3




            Official copy of your high school transcripts (if necessary)
          

If you have completed fewer than 30 semester or 45 quarter hours post high school graduation, then at the time of applying you will need to request an official copy of your final high school transcript listing all courses you have completed. Learn how transcripts can be submitted on our Submitting Documents page.
AP/IB credits and placement tests cannot be used towards the overall 30 semester hours or 45 quarter hours.






                          Step
                        4




            Official standardized test scores (optional)
          

Traditionally, students who completed fewer than 30 semester or 45 quarter hours post high school graduation, would need to submit their SAT and/or ACT scores at the time of applying. However, UMD is currently test-optional through to the Spring and Fall 2025 application cycles, which means you have the option to choose whether or not you would like your test scores considered as a part of your application review. If you choose to include your test scores, learn how to submit them on our Submitting Documents page.
If you would like to receive credit toward your degree for successfully completing Advanced Placement (AP), International Baccalaureate (IB), A/AS level examinations or certain other standard exams, you must submit those official scores upon receiving an offer of admission.






                          Step
                        5




            Letter of recommendation (optional)
          

You may choose to submit a letter of recommendation with your application. Recommendations must be sent to us directly from the recommender, and they can be written by anyone of the applicant's choosing including teachers, counselors, coaches and mentors. Learn how recommendation letters can be submitted on our Submitting Documents page.






                          Step
                        6




            School of Music application (School of Music applicants only)
          

In addition to the above items, students seeking enrollment into the School of Music must submit the online application supplement and audition. These items will only be used to determine your eligibility for admission into the School of Music and will not be used in the review of your eligibility for admission to UMD.












              MAKING SURE YOUR UMD APPLICATION IS COMPLETE
            

Applications are considered complete when the online application and all required documents have been submitted electronically or postmarked by the appropriate deadline. It is your responsibility to confirm receipt of all materials.
Through your Terps Application Portal (TAP) account, you can:
Track your application status.Confirm receipt of application materials.Receive your admission decision when it becomes available.
Keep in mind: It may take up to two weeks for recently submitted materials to be listed as received on your checklist.











              Services for Transfer Students
            














      Pre-Transfer Advising
    

Transfer students from two-year and four-year schools are encouraged to take advantage of Pre-Transfer Advising before applying to UMD. Pre-Transfer Advising will help assess your readiness to transfer and estimate your time to degree completion. You can also review 4-Year Plans for information about the major and graduation requirements for specific programs.
The advisors from your Maryland community college can work closely with pre-transfer advisors for issues related to transfer credits and major options. Pre-Transfer advisors help you determine how previous coursework will apply to your UMD degree, identify remaining general education and major requirements, and locate specific resources for additional assistance.


Reach Out to Pre-Transfer Advising
Reach Out to Pre-Transfer Advising









      Transfer Credit Services
    

Transfer Credit Services facilitates the evaluation of credit for new students who have earned college credit or prior learning credits (such as AP, IB, A/AS level exams). They provide a course database to help students and advisors estimate what credits will transfer to UMD. A final determination will be made after being admitted to UMD and a review of your official college transcripts.


Learn About Transfer Credit Services
Learn About Transfer Credit Services









      Maryland Transfer Advantage Program (MTAP)
    

MTAP provides a guaranteed admission pathway for students at participating community colleges to earn a bachelor’s degree at UMD. Students who participate in MTAP have access to transfer advising resources and can take discounted courses at UMD before officially transferring.


Explore the Maryland Transfer Advantage Program
Explore the Maryland Transfer Advantage Program


















        Resources
      




                Application FAQs
              

If questions come up as you're filling out the UMD application, be sure to reference our frequently asked questions. We've gathered answers about the application platforms, required materials, what to do after you've applied, and more.


Review Application FAQs
Review Application FAQs













                Submitting Documents
              

Find details on the best way to submit all of your required application materials.


Submitting Documents
Learn more about how to submit application materials













                Admission Review Process & Factors
              

Familiarize yourself with our holistic review process and the many factors we consider when reviewing applications.


Admission Review Process & Factors




















      There is a lot more to learn about UMD, so let's stay in touch!
    






Join Our Mailing List







Connect

















              Undergraduate Admissions
            

                  Mitchell Building
                

                  7999 Regents Dr.
                

                  College Park, MD 20742
                


1-800-422-5867
ApplyMaryland@umd.edu



























Majors & Minors


Student Life


Admissions Requirements


Application Deadlines
Application Deadlines


Tuition & Aid




              Information For:
            

Prospective Students


Parents & Families


Counselors & Advisors
Counselors & Advisors


Admitted Students










Visit UMD






Apply Now






Connect









umd.edu


Privacy Policy


Web Accessibility


        © 2023 UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND
      









