











Terrapin Commitment | Office of Student Financial Aid





      Skip to main content
    





Office of Student Financial Aid



Toggle navigation









Main navigation


My FinAid Account


Types of Aid


Resources & Policies


Forms


Financial Aid Process


























Home


                      Terrapin Commitment
                  



Terrapin Commitment





The University of Maryland has launched a new investment in need-based financial aid, providing up to $20 million annually for students from the state of Maryland.
“Since day one of my presidency, I have emphasized the importance of increasing financial support and access to our university. Every Maryland student deserves an equal opportunity to attend the state’s flagship university, and the Terrapin Commitment grant is one more measure we are taking to ensure that a University of Maryland education is affordable to all residents of our state.” —UMD President, Darryll J. Pines

This Terrapin Commitment, the largest single-year investment in need-based scholarships in our university’s history, is designed to ensure that a UMD education is affordable to all residents of our state. The goal of the Terrapin Commitment grant is to reduce the gap between a student’s total financial aid package and the actual cost of an education. Terrapin Commitment began in January 2023, ensuring that UMD’s standard in-state tuition and fees are fully covered for Pell-eligible, in-state students who are enrolled full-time and have unmet financial need, dramatically reducing the financial barriers to obtaining a higher education for low-income Marylanders.
“In alignment with our Fearlessly Forward strategic plan, we continue to find new and meaningful ways to invest in people and communities. Our investments in need-based financial aid better position us to serve the people of our state—opening the door for more Marylanders to attend a world-class flagship institution.” —UMD Senior Vice President and Provost Jennifer King Rice
If an eligible UMD student’s funding sources—including scholarships, grants and the expected family contribution—fall below standard in-state UMD tuition and mandatory fees, Terrapin Commitment will pay the difference. Additional information about eligibility and frequently asked questions can be found below.







Eligibility
Frequently Asked Questions


 


To be considered for the Terrapin Commitment grant, students must meet the following criteria:

Be classified as an undergraduate, degree-seeking in-state student.
Enroll full-time (12+ credits) per semester (Fall/Spring).
Complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) each year and qualify to receive the Federal Pell Grant. If ineligible for federal financial aid, complete the Maryland State Financial Aid Application (MSFAA) and qualify to receive the state's Educational Assistance Grant or the Guaranteed Access Grant.
Maintain satisfactory academic progress.






 





          
            What is Terrapin Commitment?
      

      



Terrapin Commitment is a University of Maryland grant designed to ensure that a UMD education is affordable to all eligible residents of our state. It provides significant financial support to eligible Maryland residents who need additional funding to cover the cost of their UMD enrollment. Specifically, Terrapin Commitment provides funding to reduce the gap between the cost of UMD education and families' ability to cover the costs.







          
            Who is eligible?
      

      



Undergraduate, degree-seeking in-state students enrolled full-time and receiving the Federal Pell Grant from completing the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) will be considered if they have unmet financial need.
Undergraduate, degree-seeking in-state students enrolled full-time but not eligible for federal aid should submit the Maryland State Financial Aid Application (MSFAA) and receive the state's Educational Assistance Grant or the Guaranteed Access Grant to be considered.
If students meet the above criteria and still have financial need after all of their grants, scholarships and waivers are applied to cover the cost of their tuition, mandatory fees, housing and food, they may be eligible for Terrapin Commitment.







          
            How do students apply? 
      

      



All students who submitted the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) for the 2023-24 academic year and who meet the eligibility requirements above are automatically considered for Terrapin Commitment. Undergraduate, degree-seeking in-state students who are enrolled full-time but not eligible for federal aid should submit the Maryland State Financial Aid Application (MSFAA) and receive the state's Educational Assistance Grant or the Guaranteed Access Grant to be considered.
No separate application is needed.







          
            How are award amounts determined? 
      

      



Terrapin Commitment will cover UMD standard in-state tuition and mandatory fees ($11,505) of all in-state, full-time, Pell-eligible students after using all scholarships, grants and the estimated family contribution. After covering the UMD standard in-state tuition and mandatory fees, we will cover 50% of the remaining unmet need, before loans, up to the standard cost of UMD’s housing and food. 

Terrapin Commitment award may be adjusted based on housing status, additional grants, scholarships, and tuition waivers received.







          
            When will students be notified of their selection for Terrapin Commitment?
      

      



Terrapin Commitment awards for the 2023-24 academic year will be available during our financial aid offer notification period.







          
            How are students notified of their selection for Terrapin Commitment?
      

      



Eligible students who are awarded Terrapin Commitment funding will be notified through their UMD email. The email will direct students to view details within the Financial Aid Portal and select the Financial Aid Offer section.







          
            What is the Housing Confirmation form and why do I need to complete it?
      

      



The Terrapin Commitment (along with other non-loan financial aid and your family contribution) may cover up to 50% of your unmet financial need. We require accurate information about your housing status to ensure your housing and food costs are outlined correctly in your cost of attendance and offer the correct Terrapin Commitment amount accurately. You may refer to our Cost of Attendance page for information regarding housing and food costs.
Office of Student Financial Aid at the University of Maryland reserves the right to modify the financial assistance at any time and information on this website is subject to change.







          
            Will this award be renewed again for the next academic year?
      

      



Students who meet all the eligibility requirements detailed above will be considered for Terrapin Commitment during the next academic year.







          
            What are the continuation requirements for this award?
      

      



Recipients of this award must register for a minimum of 12 credits (full-time) per semester (Fall/Spring) and maintain a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 2.0 or above.
Eligible students must file the FAFSA each year and receive the Federal Pell Grant. Undergraduate, degree-seeking in-state students who are enrolled full-time but not eligible for federal aid should submit the Maryland State Financial Aid Application (MSFAA) and receive the state's Educational Assistance Grant or the Guaranteed Access Grant to be considered.







          
            Is this award available for the Winter or Summer terms?
      

      



No. This need-based award is only available for the Fall and Spring semesters.







          
            Do I have to be registered as a full-time student?
      

      



Yes. Recipients of this award must register for a minimum of 12 credits per semester (Fall/Spring).






















Office of Student Financial Aid

0115 Mitchell Building
7999 Regents Drive
College Park, MD 20742 USA
P: 301.314.8377
umdfinaid@umd.edu
©2022 All rights reserved




Social Networks menu


Facebook


Twitter


YouTube










Footer


Consumer Information & Federal Notices


Contact Us


Office of Graduate Admissions


Office of Undergraduate Admissions


Web Accessibility


Privacy Notice


Site Map












