


















UMD College of Information Studies - Information and Technology for Good




















































News
Events
Apply
Give
Contact











News
Events
Apply
Give
Contact
 


About 

Message From Dean
Dean’s Lecture Series
Vision, Diversity & History
Values
Info Challenge Initiative
Annual Reports, Fast Facts & Rankings
iLEAD Council
Senior Leadership
Directory
In Memoriam
Jobs at the INFO College


Research 

Expertise Areas
Research Labs, Centers, Groups
Research Projects
Research Improvement Grants
Research Resources


Academics 

Bachelor’s Programs
Academic Minors
Combined Bachelor’s/Master’s Programs
Master’s Programs
Doctoral Program
Certificates & Non-Degree Study
Student Services
Student Resources, Aid, Careers


Alumni 

Alumni Network
Alumni Spotlights
Alumn of the Year Awards
Upcoming Events
Career Resources
Ways to Connect
INFO Commons Campaign


Partners 

iConsultancy: Capstone Projects
Corporate Partners
KidsTeam: Youth Tech Co-Design


 










 
20240305_ScottNash_WebBanner 1500x500Join us March 5th for "MOM’s Organic Market Journey—A Conversation With Scott Nash, Founder/CEO." Learn more.RERC_Img1_1500x500 (1)INFO Receives $4.6M Grant to Support Making Tech Accessible for People Living with Disabilities. Read more.Cybersecurity 1500x500INFO College group connects sociotechnical cybersecurity thinkers and leaders from academia, industry, and government. Read more. 



 





The University of Maryland College of Information Studies (UMD INFO College) is a top-ranked research and teaching college where faculty, staff, and students are passionate about using information and technology to break down barriers and create exciting new possibilities.
Learn More 

Research
Expanding the frontiers how information and technology is accessed, used, and leveraged to empower individuals and communities.  
Discover Our Research  
Partners
Working with community, academic, and industry partners to create information science solutions and create learning and career opportunities for students.
Explore How to Partner 

Academics
Offering Bachelor, Master, PhD, and Certificate programs to prepare the next generation of information professionals and researchers. 
Explore Programs  
Alumni
Supporting new generations of students through scholarships, internships, and connections while enjoying networking and other benefits.
Get Involved 






Recent INFO News


Image by Claudia Borchert from Pixabay
KFF Health News: What the Health? (ft. Jen Golbeck)
               January 26, 2024 |  INFO Staff
INFO Professor Jen Golbeck discusses new book



Image credit: kastanka from istockphoto.com
Yahoo Finance: Generative AI Will Create a ‘Tsunami of Disinformation’ During the 2024 Election (ft. Jen Golbeck)
               January 26, 2024 |  INFO Staff
INFO Professor Jen Golbeck comments on AI election disinformation



Eight seed grants from UMD's new TRAILS institute aim to diversify stakeholders in developing and governing AI, while using the emerging technology for societal good. Illustration courtesy of Maryland Today via iStock 
Maryland Today: $1.5M in Grants Target Trustworthy AI Development
               January 25, 2024 |  Maryland Today Staff | UMD
Eight Projects Explore Use of Cutting-Edge Technology to Solve Range of Societal Issues



Photo courtesy of Insight Into Diversity magazine 
Insight Into Diversity Magazine: UMD Leads Projects Aimed at Career Support, Accessibility for People with Disabilities (ft. Jonathan Lazar)
               January 23, 2024 |  INFO Staff
INFO Professor Jonathan Lazar promotes digital accessibility

View All News


Upcoming Events


Jan 29                


Virtual Information Session: Master of Information Management (MIM)





Jan 30                


T.E.R.P.S. for Terps Training (Faculty/Staff)





Jan 30                


SoDa Symposium: “Dealing with Missing Data in Education/Workforce Analysis”





Jan 31                


Welcome Back Game Night with INFO (Spring 2024)





Feb 01                


Human-Computer Interaction Lab Weekly Lunch/BBL Talk (Hybrid)





Feb 05                


MLIS Pizza Social



View All Events








Contact
News
Events
Jobs
Faculty & Staff Resources
Privacy Policy
Web Accessibility


University of Maryland ·
College of Information Studies ·
4130 Campus Drive ·
Hornbake Library, Rm. 0201 ·
College Park, MD 20742-4345 ·
(301)405-2033 ·
Hours: Mon-Fri, 9am-4pm
      Copyright © 2024 · UMD College of Information Studies.  All rights reserved.
      

TwitterTwitter FacebookFacebook YoutubeYoutube InstagramInstagram  LinkedInLinkedIn

 








