









Bachelor of Science | Department of Mechanical Engineering















Skip to main content

Shape Copy 6Shape Copy 18ShapeShapenext month copynext month


A. James Clark School of Engineering, University of Maryland
Mobile Navigation Trigger








Search this site for:








Home



Main Menu





Mobile Navigation Trigger Reverse





eng.umd.edu

Contact

Apply

Give

Recruit





About


Mission

Faculty and Staff

Visiting Committee



Undergraduate


Degrees


Bachelor of Science

Minor in Nuclear Engineering

Combined B.S/M.S. Program



Prospective Students


First Year Applicants

Transfer Applicants

Distance Programs

Southern Maryland Program

Keystone Program

Why Choose ME

Visit Us

Financial Aid



Current Students


Advising & Support


Courses

Required Courses

Technical Electives

Concentration Areas

Course Maps



Curriculum

Study Abroad

Student Groups

Student Competitions

Scholarships

Awards

Commencement



Accreditation



Graduate


Degrees


M.S. in Mechanical Engineering

M.S. in Reliability Engineering

M. Eng. in Mechanical Engineering

M. Eng. in Reliability Engineering

Doctorate of Philosophy

Ph.D. in Reliability Engineering



Prospective Students


Admissions

International Applicants



Current Students


Advising & Support


International Students

Courses

Graduate Program Forms



Graduate Student Council

Scholarships & Fellowships



Fellowships and Scholarships



Research


Partnerships & Initiatives

Research Centers & Labs

Research News



Alumni & Industry


Alumni Community

Industry Sponsors

Partner with Mechanical Engineering

Short Courses



News


E-Newsletter

METRICS Magazine

Student Stories

Photos









eng.umd.edu

Contact

Apply

Give

Recruit





Faculty Directory

Staff Directory

Careers

Media

Facilities

ClarkNet




Facebook
Twitter
Youtube
Linkedin














Equipping students to solve grand challenges
CoursesContact an Advisor 








HomeUndergraduateDegreesBachelor of Science 
Bachelor of Science




Technical ElectivesCourse SyllabiCourse Maps & PlansConcentration Areas
















	Mechanical Engineering
The Department of Mechanical Engineering features four major interdisciplinary research centers and more than 40 laboratories. Our faculty and students contribute to key research areas by advancing none-scale 3D printing, developing new generations of health monitoring tools, and leading solutions for robotic systems. From design to manufacturing, we bring innovative ideas to the laboratory and the world. 

	Program Tracks
Students in Mechanical Engineering choose between one of six concentration areas to tailor their interests and learning experiences.

		Aero/Mechanical Industry

		Automotive Design

		Design and Manufacturing

		Energy and the Environment

		Engineering Management

		Robotics and Mechatronics

Learn More about ME Concentration Areas

Required Courses


ENES 100: Introduction to Engineering Design
Corequisite: MATH 140. Students work as teams to design and build a product using computer software for word-processing, spreadsheet, CAD, and communications skills. 3 credits.
ENES 102: Mechanics I 
Corequisite: MATH 140. The equilibrium of stationary bodies under the influence of various kinds of forces. Forces, moments, couples, equilibrium, trusses, frames and machines, beams, and friction. Vector and scalar methods are used to solve problems. 3 credits.
ENES 220: Mechanics II 
Prerequisites: ENES 102, MATH 141, PHYS 161. Stress and deformation of solids-rods, beams, shafts, columns, tanks, and other structural, machine, and vehicle members. Topics include stress transformation using Mohr's circle, shear and moment diagrams, derivation of elastic curves, and Euler's buckling formula. 3 credits.
ENES 221: Dynamics 
Prerequisites: ENES 102, MATH 141, PHYS 161. Two lectures and one two-hour laboratory per week. Systems of heavy particles and rigid bodies at rest and in motion. Force, acceleration, work-energy, and impulse-momentum relationships. Motion of one body relative to another in a plane and in space. 3 credits.
MATH 206: Introduction to MATLAB 
Prerequisite: MATH 141. This course is intended to prepare students for subsequent courses requiring computation with MATLAB. Covers basics of MATLAB including simple commands, variables, solving equations, graphing differentiation and integration, matrices and vectors, functions, M-files and fundamentals of programming in the MATLAB environment. 1 credit. Mechanical Engineering students entering the major in Fall 2017 or later are required to take ENME 202: Fundamentals of Engineering Computing in place of this course unless acceptable programming course credit has been earned. Contact a Mechanical Engineering advisor for more information on accepted programming credit.
ENES 232: Thermodynamics
Prerequisites: PHYS 260, PHYS261. Introduction to thermodynamics. Thermodynamic properties of matter. First and second laws of thermodynamics, cycles, reactions, and mixtures. 3 credits.
ENME 202/ENAE 202: Computing Fundamentals for Engineers 
Prerequisite: MATH 140. Introduction to computational tools for the solution of engineering problems. C++ & MATLAB programming including branching and loops, functions, file handling, arrays, and data structures. Students will be introduced to object-oriented programming, basic computing, algorithms, and principles of software engineering. 3 credits. Mechanical Engineering students entering the major in Fall 2017 or later are required to take ENME 202: Fundamentals of Engineering Computing in place of MATH 206 unless acceptable programming course credit has been earned. Contact a Mechanical Engineering advisor for more information on accepted programming credit.
ENME 272: Introduction to Computer Aided Design 
Prerequisite: ENES 100; Co-requisite: MATH 141 or equivalent. Fundamentals of CAD, using solid modeling packages (Pro/E, SolidWorks, and Autodesk Inventor). Two and three dimensional drawing. Dimensioning and specifications. Introduction of CAD based analysis tools. Students will complete a design project. Credit only granted for ENME 272 or ENME 414. Students entering the Mechanical Engineering program in fall 2012 or later are required to take ENME 272 for their curriculum but may substitute ENME 414 in place of ENME 272 if desired. 2 credits.
ENME 331: Fluid Mechanics 
Prerequisite: ENME 232, ENES 221. Principles of fluid mechanics. Mass, momentum, and energy conservation. Hydrostatics. Control volume analysis. Internal and external flow. Boundary layers. Modern measurement techniques. Computer analysis. Laboratory experiments. 3 credits.
ENME 332: Transfer Processes 
Prerequisite: ENME 331. The principles of heat transfer. Conduction in solids. Convection. Radiation. Modern measurement techniques. Computer analysis. 3 credits.
ENME 350: Electronics and Instrumentation I 
Prerequisite: PHYS 270 and PHYS 271. Modern instrumentation. Basic circuit design, standard microelectronic circuits. Digital data acquisition and control. Signal conditioning. Instrumentation interfacing. Designing and testing analog circuits. Laboratory experiments. 3 credits.
ENME 351: Electronics and Instrumentation II 
Prerequisites: ENME 350 and PHYS 270 and PHYS 271. Continuation of ENME 350. Modern instrumentation. Basic circuit design, standard microelectronic circuits. Digital data acquisition and control. Signal conditioning. Instrumentation interfacing. Designing and testing analog circuits. Laboratory experiments. 3 credits.
ENME 361: Vibration, Controls, and Optimization I 
Prerequisites: ENES 220, ENES 221, MATH 246, and MATH 206, ENME 271, ENME 202 or equivalent. Fundamentals of vibration, controls, and optimization. Analysis and design in time, Laplace, and frequency domains. Mathematical description of system response, system stability, control, and optimization. Optimal design of mechanical systems. 3 credits.
ENME 371: Product Engineering and Manufacturing
Prerequisites: ENES 221, ENME 392 or STAT 400. Business aspects of engineering product development. Relationship of design and manufacturing. Product specification. Statistical process control. Design team development. The development process. 3 credits.
ENME 382: Introduction to Materials Engineering
Prerequisite: ENES100; and permission of ENGR-Mechanical Engineering department.
Corequisite: MATH241.
Recommended: PHYS261 and PHYS260.
Restriction: Permission of ENGR-Mechanical Engineering department.
Cross-listed with ENMA300.
Credit only granted for: ENMA300 or ENME382.
Structure of materials, chemical composition, phase transformations,
corrosion and mechanical properties of metals, ceramics, polymers and
related materials. Materials selection in engineering applications. 3 credits.
ENME 392: Statistical Methods for Product and Process Development 
Prerequisites: MATH 241. Integrated statistical methodology for improvement of products and processes in terms of performance, quality, and cost. Designed experimentation. Statistical process control. Software application. Laboratory activities. 3 credits.
ENME 400: Machine Design 
Corequisite: ENME 361. Uses and limitations of finite element analysis, analysis of machine components: straight and curved beams, gears, shafts, plates, shells, bolts, screws, and flanges. 3 credits. This course is an elective course for most students entering the Mechanical Engineering program prior to the Fall 2015 semester.
ENME 462: Vibration, Controls, and Optimization II 
Prerequisites: ENME 351 and ENME 361. Continuation of ENME 361. Fundamentals of vibration, controls, and optimization. Analysis and design in time, Laplace, and frequency domains. Mathematical description of system response, system stability, control, and optimization. Optimal design of mechanical systems. 3 credits
ENME 472: Integrated Product and Process Development 
Prerequisite: ENME 371. Integration of product development with the development process. Design strategies. Product architecture. Design for manufacturing. Selection of materials. Design for assembly. 3 credits.




Top








Faculty Directory

Staff Directory

Careers

Media

Facilities

ClarkNet






Facebook
Twitter
Youtube
Instagram












Privacy Policy

Accessibility

umd.edu



© 2024 University of Maryland







