































Home | College of Computer, Mathematical, and Natural Sciences | University of Maryland









































































































    Skip to main content
  





































                    About
                      




                    Meet the Dean
            
        



                    College Administration
            
        



                    Diversity & Inclusion
                      




                    Advisory Council
            
        



                    TerrapinSTRONG
            
        



                    Student Organizations
            
        





                    Alumni
            
        



                    Giving
            
        



                    Faculty & Staff
                      




                    Endowed Chairs & Professors
            
        



                    Distinguished University Professors
            
        



                    Faculty Honors and Awards
            
        



                    Faculty Resources
            
        



                    CMNS Teaching & Learning Center
            
        



                    College Awards
            
        





                    Board of Visitors
            
        



                    Circle of Discovery
            
        





                    Undergraduate
                      




                    Future Students
                      




                    Majors & Minors
            
        



                    Admissions
            
        



                    Plan a Visit
            
        



                    Recruitment Ambassadors
            
        



                    Living & Learning Programs
            
        





                    Current Students
                      




                    Advising and Academic Planning
            
        



                    Career Ready
            
        



                    Student Organizations
            
        



                    Academic Support & Tutoring
            
        



                    Scholarships
            
        



                    Graduation Information
            
        



                    Undergraduate Teaching Opportunities
            
        



                    Undergraduate Listserv
            
        



                    Undergraduate Program Staff
            
        







                    Graduate
                      




                    Degree Programs
            
        



                    Admissions
            
        



                    Graduate Fellowships
            
        



                    Student Organizations
            
        



                    CMNS Teaching & Learning Center
            
        



                    Graduation Information
            
        



                    Science Academy
                      




                    About
            
        



                    Bioinformatics & Computational Biology
            
        



                    Data Science & Analytics
            
        



                    Machine Learning
            
        



                    Quantum Computing
            
        







                    Departments
            
        



                    Research
                      




                    Research Institutes & Centers
            
        



                    Partnerships
            
        



                    Solving Grand Challenges
                      




                    Climate Change
            
        



                    Artificial Intelligence
            
        



                    Human Disease
            
        



                    Quantum Computing
            
        



                    Space Exploration
            
        





                    Shared Research Facilities
            
        



                    Innovation
            
        





                    News & Events
                      




                    News
            
        



                    Events
                      




                    Science on Tap
            
        





                    Odyssey Magazine
            
        



                    Newsletters
            
        





















Search















































Home






 















  Confronting
Climate
Change
Read More


  Building a
welcoming
environment
for all
Science
Terps
Diversity & Inclusion


Advancing
research
and education
Learn About Us


  Accelerating
solutions to
grand challenges
More About Our Research







 






























9,000
Undergraduate and Graduate Students





11
Top-25 Ranked Programs
(U.S. News & World Report)





$250M
Annual Sponsored Research Funding







 
























Featured News



























New Chemistry Building Coming in 2024 

















Explore our Neuroscience Major! Students train in the interdisciplinary study of brain and behavior 






















 Maryland Celebrates Unveiling of its First Mesonet Tower 










 UMD Leads New $20M NSF Institute for Trustworthy AI in Law and Society 










 The Moon is Shrinking, Causing Landslides and Instability in Lunar South Pole 










 Advancing Climate Resilience in Maryland  










 Quantum Researcher Yu Liu Brings Laser Focus to UMD’s Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry 






See More


 



































We Take On Humanity's Grand Challenges
Our education, research, scholarship and creative activities, and service are designed to accelerate solutions to humanity's grand challenges—within our communities and around the globe. 





















  Climate Change 
  Human Disease 
  Artificial Intelligence 
  Quantum Computing 
  Space Exploration 


We see the signs everywhere—our future is in jeopardy. As Earth’s temperature rises, greenhouse gases reach record levels and severe weather events strike with frightening frequency, we must ask the question: What will it take to solve this grand challenge? 
Our researchers are fiercely committed to the fight against global warming. These scientists are tapping into satellite data to predict crop-killing droughts before they happen, identifying trees that adapt to climate change instead of worsening it, and unraveling the complex relationship between airborne pollutants and weather conditions. Grand challenges demand bold ideas and real-world solutions. In CMNS, we lead Fearlessly Forward. 
Learn More
Globally speaking, humans now enjoy longer, healthier lives than at any point in history. We have come a long way since Hippocrates first advocated logic as a way to understand disease. But to understand disease is to appreciate that it works at a variety of scales. Fittingly, it is impossible to apply a one-size-fits-all approach to disease research.
Scientists in CMNS are tackling the dynamics of infectious and hereditary diseases at all scales, from complex multispecies conditions, such as malaria, to whole-body aging disorders; from the flu with its organ-specific infection pathway to the submicroscopic structure of disease-causing viruses and disease-fighting antibodies. From multispecies to the submolecular scale, CMNS researchers are fighting human diseases on multiple fronts.
Learn More
Artificial intelligence is everywhere. It has worked its way into our daily lives, from voice assistants like Siri and Alexa to traffic apps that guide us around gridlock, cars that drive themselves and news stories that pop up on our social media feeds. And there’s no end in sight to the potential applications of machine learning—in fraud protection, health care, the stock market and more.
Researchers in CMNS work at the forefront of machine learning technology, where computers analyze data to identify patterns and make decisions with minimal human intervention. These faculty members are using machine learning for applications that touch many aspects of our lives—from weather prediction and health care to transportation, finance and wildlife conservation. Along the way, they are advancing the science of exactly how computers learn. And they’re asking important questions about the impact of machine learning on our everyday lives and society itself.
Learn more
The University of Maryland is a powerhouse of quantum discovery, with decades of experience advancing a field that will help define our nation’s—and the world’s—future. Here, over 200 quantum scientists and engineers are exploiting the unique properties of quantum physics to usher in a new age of technology: quantum computers capable of currently impossible calculations, ultra-secure quantum networking and exotic new quantum materials.
Learn more
Exploring space helps answer fundamental questions about the mysteries of the universe and the history of our solar system. CMNS astronomers, physicists, atmospheric scientists and geologists are all hard at work on the frontiers of space exploration. The college's close relationship with NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center enables faculty members and students to share research facilities and partner to advance our understanding of the universe. 
Learn more

























                           We Take On Humanity's Grand Challenges                        


























                           Majors & Minors                        














                           Diversity, Equity and Inclusion                        














                           Alumni                        














                           Odyssey Magazine                        







































 

Connect with Us






 








Quick Links



 Employment
 UMD Home
 Privacy Notice
 Web Accessibility
 Webmaster

 







Visit Us



Dean's Office: 3400 A.V. Williams BuildingUndergraduate Student Services: 1300 Symons HallUniversity of Maryland College Park, MD 20742
 Contact Us
 
































