







Office of Undergraduate Admissions | Obtaining a Visa





































Skip to main content













Undergraduate  Admissions




















Visit UMD





Apply Now





Connect





Search







Academics 







All Programs


Colleges & Schools




Limited Enrollment Programs




LEP Admission for Current Students







        Want more information about our majors?
      

        Academics
      






Student Life






        Want to learn more about life as a Terp?
      

        Student Life
      



Housing & Dining


Student Support & Safety


Get Involved on Campus


Find Your Community







How To Apply







Freshman Applicants


Transfer Applicants




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program FAQs






International Applicants




English Language Proficiency
Obtaining a Visa
Financial Certification




Shady Grove Applicants




Shady Grove Terp Transfer Partnership






Application Deadlines


Admission Review Process & Factors


Application FAQs




Freshman Application FAQs
Transfer Application FAQ
Essay Questions
Submitting Documents







        Ready to apply?
      

        How to Apply
      






Tuition & Aid






        Need more information on cost of attendance at UMD,  financing your education and merit scholarships?
      

        Tuition & Aid
      



Cost of Attendance


Freshman Merit Scholarships


Transfer Merit Scholarships




Frederick Douglass Scholarship




Office of Student Financial Aid


















Home
International Applicants

        Obtaining a Visa
      






              Obtaining a Visa
            


Admitted international applicants and students with international coursework must provide a visa after they are offered admission.


If you have questions regarding the status of your visa or the required paperwork, please contact International Student & Scholar Services.




    Admitted Students Residing in the United Sates
  


If you are holding F-1 Student or J-1 Exchange Visitor status in the United States, you need to submit a photocopy of your I-94 Arrival/Departure Record, visa stamp and current I-20 or DS2019 form along with your Financial Certification.
If you have another type of nonimmigrant status, you need to submit a photocopy of your I-94 Arrival/Departure Record and visa stamp, and must indicate if you intend to change to F-1 Student or J-1 Exchange Visitor status. Upon admission and submission of the appropriate financial support documentation, the university will issue you the appropriate Certificate of Eligibility form (I-20 or DS2019).





    Admitted Students Residing Outside of the United States
  


To enter the United States, international students residing abroad need a passport from their government and a visa from the U.S. Consulate. To obtain a visa for the purposes of studying in the United States, the applicant must present a Certificate of Eligibility form I-20 to the U.S. Consulate. The university’s Office of International Student & Scholar Services will issue this form to admitted students who have:
Confirmed their enrollment online.
Submitted the Certification of Finances to provide proof of having sufficient funds to cover the cost of a program of study.

Your admission to the university may be cancelled if all required materials are not received.
Admitted students who are sponsored by agencies, foundations or their home government, or are participating in an established exchange program may be issued the Certificate of Eligibility form (DS2019) in order to obtain the J-1 Exchange Visitor Visa.





    Canadian Citizens
  


If you are a Canadian citizen who has been admitted to the university, have confirmed your enrollment and have completed the Certification of Finances, you don’t need a visa. Instead, you are required at the port of entry to present your passport or proof of Canadian citizenship, a certificate of eligibility for nonimmigrant status (the I-20 or DS-2019 form that the University of Maryland provides) and evidence of adequate funding for your proposed program of study. You will then be issued an I-94 card indicating your student visa status.















      There is a lot more to learn about UMD, so let's stay in touch!
    






Join Our Mailing List







Connect

















              Undergraduate Admissions
            

                  Mitchell Building
                

                  7999 Regents Dr.
                

                  College Park, MD 20742
                


1-800-422-5867
ApplyMaryland@umd.edu



























Majors & Minors


Student Life


Admissions Requirements


Application Deadlines
Application Deadlines


Tuition & Aid




              Information For:
            

Prospective Students


Parents & Families


Counselors & Advisors
Counselors & Advisors


Admitted Students










Visit UMD






Apply Now






Connect









umd.edu


Privacy Policy


Web Accessibility


        © 2023 UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND
      









