









B.S. in Biocomputational Engineering | B.S. in Biocomputational Engineering

















Skip to main content


Shape Copy 6Shape Copy 18ShapeShapenext month copynext month


B.S. in Biocomputational Engineering
Menu


Overview

Career Pathways

Admissions

Curriculum

News

Events

FAQs

Contact







B.S. in Biocomputational Engineering




  The Biocomputational Engineering degree is a newly established program designed to address the growing need for engineers who have a solid foundation in both the physical and biological sciences as well as computation and data science.


LEARN MORE CHAT WITH A PROGRAM REPRESENTATIVE  Take the Quiz: What Type of Science Genius are You?






OverviewSeperator


  About Biocomputational Engineering

  About Biocomputational Engineering
  Solutions for today’s most pressing public health challenges lie at the interface of biology and computer science. Biocomputational engineering is an emerging field that merges bioengineering – a discipline grounded in the fundamentals of physics, chemistry, and biology – with computation and data science to make global advances in health and medicine.


  Why Study Biocomputational Engineering at UMD?

  Why Study Biocomputational Engineering at UMD?
  The new bachelor of science in biocomputational engineering degree program will address the rapidly growing demand for engineers with expertise in both the biological sciences and computational methods. This program is geared toward transfer students from community colleges or four-year institutions. The curriculum offers junior- and senior-level courses within the new state-of-the-art Biomedical Sciences and Engineering (BSE) education facility at the Universities at Shady Grove. Graduates of this program will receive a B.S. degree in biocomputational engineering from the University of Maryland, College Park.











  PROGRAM ADMISSIONS
  Biocomputational Engineering Admissions Information
Students are welcome to apply for the Biocomputational Engineering program as transfer students from community college or four-year institutions. Prior to being admitted to the Biocomputational Engineering degree program, transfer students must complete the prerequisite math/science courses, lower-level General Education requirements (or an associate's degree), and a total of 60 credits.
Learn More  Q&A with Dr. White 




  ABOUT THE FIELD
  What is biocomputational engineering?
In the biotech industry, biocomp engineers apply their knowledge of computer programming to analyze biological data sets and create new diagnostic technologies for the treatment and prevention of disease. 
Watch the Video 








  Biocomputational Engineering CurriculumSeperator
 The bachelor of science in Biocomputational Engineering will provide students with a breadth of fundamentals in biology and quantitative problem solving while developing skills in computation and data science. Students will apply these skills to the modeling of complex biological systems and the analysis of complex biological data sets in order to create new knowledge from the molecular to organ to system levels.  The synthesis of bioengineering, computation, and data science gives the graduates unique capabilities to solve existing and emerging challenges of the modern medical world.
The major will require 120 credits for graduation, of which 60 are transferred into the program and 60 are completed at Shady Grove.

Course Requirements 














  Recent Stories





  UMD Biocomputational Engineering Student Recognized at Bioinformatics & Computational Biology Retreat
  BCE student Melina Khansari attended Bioinformatics & Computational Biology Retreat








  Getting on the Fast Track to a Career in Biotech
  Attend an information session and learn more about the program 








  Combating Bias in AI, Human Health
  Univ. of Maryland researchers are working to make health care more equitable





Searching for more stories? Biotech Bytes is a resource for those interested in learning about how biotech is transforming health care and for those who want to make an impact on the global community. Subscribe to receive our latest stories with biotech news, helpful resources, insights from experts in the field, and more!
 
 














Request More Information











      © 2024      Privacy Policy
Fischell Department of Bioengineering
A. James Clark School of Engineering
University of Maryland









