







Office of Undergraduate Admissions | Connect





































Skip to main content










Undergraduate  Admissions




















Visit UMD





Apply Now





Connect





Search







Academics 







All Programs


Colleges & Schools




Limited Enrollment Programs




LEP Admission for Current Students







        Want more information about our majors?
      

        Academics
      






Student Life






        Want to learn more about life as a Terp?
      

        Student Life
      



Housing & Dining


Student Support & Safety


Get Involved on Campus


Find Your Community







How To Apply







Freshman Applicants


Transfer Applicants




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program FAQs






International Applicants




English Language Proficiency
Obtaining a Visa
Financial Certification




Shady Grove Applicants




Shady Grove Terp Transfer Partnership






Application Deadlines


Admission Review Process & Factors


Application FAQs




Freshman Application FAQs
Transfer Application FAQ
Essay Questions
Submitting Documents







        Ready to apply?
      

        How to Apply
      






Tuition & Aid






        Need more information on cost of attendance at UMD,  financing your education and merit scholarships?
      

        Tuition & Aid
      



Cost of Attendance


Freshman Merit Scholarships


Transfer Merit Scholarships




Frederick Douglass Scholarship




Office of Student Financial Aid



























            Connect
          

Reach out if you need help with the application and admission processes. We're here for you.








Home

        Connect
      








      GET IN TOUCH & STAY UPDATED
    





If you're looking for ways to stay connected with the Office of Undergraduate Admissions and up to date on admissions information, we encourage you to get to know our team, join the mailing list and follow us on social media. If, after reviewing our website, you have questions, feel free to reach out to our office. We'd be happy to help you find answers!














      Our Team
    

Whether you get a chance to meet us at your high school, during a college fair or on campus, our team of passionate and dedicated admission representatives are here to help you through the application and admission process.


Meet Our Admission Reps
Get connected to the admission representative for your area.
























        JOIN THE MAILING LIST
      

Complete a brief form to be added to UMD's mailing list. We'll send you emails about upcoming events, deadlines and helpful information about applying to UMD.


Sign Up Now
Join the mailing list to get important information about our programs and visiting opportunities.







        CONNECT ON SOCIAL
      

Follow us @ApplyMaryland for reminders and updates on application deadlines and other special announcements.


































      Hours of Operation
    

The Office of Undergraduate Admissions is located in the Mitchell Building (7999 Regents Dr., College Park, MD 20742). Visitors can speak with an admission representative Monday-Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
If you are coming to campus for a scheduled information session/tour, please head directly to the Visitor Center at The Hotel at UMD.
You can also reach our office via phone, 301.314.TERP (8377), or by email, ApplyMaryland@umd.edu.

















      There is a lot more to learn about UMD, so let's stay in touch!
    






Join Our Mailing List







Connect

















              Undergraduate Admissions
            

                  Mitchell Building
                

                  7999 Regents Dr.
                

                  College Park, MD 20742
                


1-800-422-5867
ApplyMaryland@umd.edu



























Majors & Minors


Student Life


Admissions Requirements


Application Deadlines
Application Deadlines


Tuition & Aid




              Information For:
            

Prospective Students


Parents & Families


Counselors & Advisors
Counselors & Advisors


Admitted Students










Visit UMD






Apply Now






Connect









umd.edu


Privacy Policy


Web Accessibility


        © 2023 UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND
      









