







Office of Undergraduate Admissions | Student Life





































Skip to main content










Undergraduate  Admissions




















Visit UMD





Apply Now





Connect





Search







Academics 







All Programs


Colleges & Schools




Limited Enrollment Programs




LEP Admission for Current Students







        Want more information about our majors?
      

        Academics
      






Student Life






        Want to learn more about life as a Terp?
      

        Student Life
      



Housing & Dining


Student Support & Safety


Get Involved on Campus


Find Your Community







How To Apply







Freshman Applicants


Transfer Applicants




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program FAQs






International Applicants




English Language Proficiency
Obtaining a Visa
Financial Certification




Shady Grove Applicants




Shady Grove Terp Transfer Partnership






Application Deadlines


Admission Review Process & Factors


Application FAQs




Freshman Application FAQs
Transfer Application FAQ
Essay Questions
Submitting Documents







        Ready to apply?
      

        How to Apply
      






Tuition & Aid






        Need more information on cost of attendance at UMD,  financing your education and merit scholarships?
      

        Tuition & Aid
      



Cost of Attendance


Freshman Merit Scholarships


Transfer Merit Scholarships




Frederick Douglass Scholarship




Office of Student Financial Aid



























            Student Life
          

We want you to feel at home at the University of Maryland (UMD). We're committed to fostering a campus environment that supports a healthy mind, body and spirit for all members of the university community.








Home

        Student Life
      








      MAKE UMD YOURS
    





You’ll make the most of your UMD experience not just in the classroom, but beyond. Opportunities to get involved, have fun and make a difference are as rich and diverse as the homemade ice cream flavors at the Maryland Dairy! You won’t only make your home here, you’ll be part of a close-knit community.
Bond with your roommate, meet up with friends at the Food Court in the Stamp. Work up a sweat by playing Ultimate Frisbee or learning to ballroom dance. Pledge a service fraternity, join one club—or 10! Attend a concert or movie screening on campus, belt out the Maryland fight song at a football game. No matter what you want to do, you can find it at UMD.












            Students in Action
          

You’ll make the most of your UMD experience not just in the classroom, but beyond. You won’t only make your home here, you’ll be part of a close-knit community. 





















Service Day at the Farm at UMD











Sports fans and the University of Maryland mascot, Testudo, getting into the spirit











Friendly competition at the Alumni Cup











Agriculture students enjoy an outdoor classroom day











Students participating in yoga.















              Getting Involved
            

Looking for a fencing club, a cappella singing group, mock trial team or Buddhist thought and meditation group? We have you covered on this and more.








      800+ Clubs
    

With more than 800 clubs, fraternities/sororities and sports, getting involved at UMD couldn’t be easier.









      Athletics
    

Fear the Turtle! It’s the rallying cry at the University of Maryland, which has one of the country’s most comprehensive and successful athletic programs. From intramural and club sports to our Division I teams, Terps are active.









      Always things to do
    

Discover events happening on campus or in the area.






Getting Involved on Campus
Learn more about getting involved on campus


Events Calendar
Go to the Events Calendar
















      Finding Community
    

With so many ways to get involved on-campus and in the community, it's easy to find your people—Terps who share your interests and hobbies. You'll form lifelong friendships and networks you can rely on beyond college.


Find Your Community at UMD
Find Your Community at UMD













      Housing & Dining
    

College is a big adjustment. Knowing where you'll call home and where you can find a home cooked meal is important. There are many options for living on- or off-campus and students can grab a bite at a dining hall, food court or cafe across campus.


Discover housing & dining at UMD
Discover housing & dining at UMD













      Student Support & Safety
    

UMD is committed to ensuring our students well-being and success. We offer a variety of services to help students master their classes, stay active and to make campus a safe place to navigate.


Learn about support & safety at UMD
Learn more about support & safety at UMD

















      There is a lot more to learn about UMD, so let's stay in touch!
    






Join Our Mailing List







Connect

















              Undergraduate Admissions
            

                  Mitchell Building
                

                  7999 Regents Dr.
                

                  College Park, MD 20742
                


1-800-422-5867
ApplyMaryland@umd.edu



























Majors & Minors


Student Life


Admissions Requirements


Application Deadlines
Application Deadlines


Tuition & Aid




              Information For:
            

Prospective Students


Parents & Families


Counselors & Advisors
Counselors & Advisors


Admitted Students










Visit UMD






Apply Now






Connect









umd.edu


Privacy Policy


Web Accessibility


        © 2023 UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND
      









