







Prospective Applicants | Undergraduate Computer Science at UMD
























Skip to main content






University of Maryland








Undergraduate Computer Science at UMD


Toggle navigation







Home
About Academic Advisors
Heads of Staff
Graduate Assistants
Peer Advisors

Current Students Academic Advising
Academic Integrity
Academic and Personal Resources
Advising Updates
Class Web Pages
Clubs and Organizations
Computer Science Honors
Computer Science Minor
Degree Requirements
Departmental Exception to Policy Request
For Parents of Students
Independent Study
Internal Transfer Applicants
Internships, Co-ops, Employment
Major/Non-Major Permissions
Professorial Faculty
Report a Concern or Incident
Scholarships
Study Abroad
Undergraduate Research
Teaching Assistants
Tutoring Resources
What 4XX Should I Take?!

Prospective Applicants External Transfer Applicants
External New Student Exemption Exams
First Year Applicants
CS LEP FAQ (Effective Fall 2024)
Info for Prospective Partners
Immersive Media Design Major
Other Computing Majors at UMD
Post-Bacc Applicants

FAQ
Combined BS/MS Program
 











 



Prospective Applicants


















      Welcome to Computer Science!    




Thank you for your interest in the Computer Science department at the University of Maryland!
This page is geared towards incoming first-year applicants who are interested in applying to the University of Maryland and majoring in Computer Science.
The Department of Computer Science is home to world renowned faculty who work in more than 15 distinct research areas covering both core computer science and many areas of interdisciplinary collaboration.
The Computer Science major is a limited enrollment program; this applies to new freshmen, new transfer applicants, and internal transfers changing majors within the University. For more information, please visit the CS LEP Fact Sheet here, and you can find answers to some frequently asked questions here.
For more information regarding the requirements for the major, you can visit the Degree Requirements page here.


Visit the Computer Science Department at UMD
Prospective Student Workshops
Learn more about the Computer Science major at the University of Maryland in a 50 minute information session from academic advisors with an opportunity for a Q&A session with current Computer Science students. The in-person workshops will include a 45 minute walking tour of the Brendan Iribe Center for Computer Science and Engineering. This Fall's prospective student workshops will occur on Wednesday, September 27th at 5pm virtually and in person; Friday October 20th at 2pm in person, and Friday November 10th in person. Please note that RSVPs will be necessary, as physical space at the workshops will be limited.
Register here for Prospective Student Workshops: https://umdsurvey.umd.edu/jfe/form/SV_3eCMmCOCIrsyQOa
 
Meeting with a Computer Science Ambassador
Get one-on-one answers to your questions about the Computer Science Department at UMD. We offer 20 minute appointments with our Undergraduate Computer Science Ambassadors. There are in person and online meeting options available. Please note that we can only answer questions about the Computer Science major and not the admissions process.
Sign up for Fall meetings with a Computer Science Ambassador Here! https://umdsurvey.umd.edu/jfe/form/SV_dnfxN5l22ZDBpMq.
 
 
Maryland Day - April 29, 2023
 
Established in 1999, Maryland Day is the University of Maryland's largest community outreach event. Alums, friends, family and neighbors of all ages are invited to campus for a daylong celebration. Come visit the Iribe Center to chat with advisors and Computer Science Ambassadors about the Computer Science major at UMD! We will also be holding a couple of information sessions that align with the information covered in the Prospective Student Workshops.









      Resources and Information    

If you are a high school student and interested in applying to the Computer Science major at the University of Maryland, please click here.
If you are a current student at the University of Maryland interested in changing your major to Computer Science, please click here.
If you are a transfer student to the University of Maryland and you are interested in pursuing Computer Science, please click here.
If you are a post-bacc student interested in pursuing Computer Science, please click here.
To learn more about other computing-related majors at the University of Maryland click here.



 

What is Computer Science?





 

Exemption Exams





 

Computer Requirements





 

AP & IB Credits





























Contact Our Office
CS Undergraduate OfficeBrendan Iribe Center for Computer Science and EngineeringUniversity of Maryland8125 Paint Branch DriveCollege Park, MD 20742 (301) 405-2672


Part of the
Department of Computer ScienceBrendan Iribe Center for Computer Science and EngineeringUniversity of Maryland8125 Paint Branch DriveCollege Park, MD 20742 (301) 405-2662

Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
LinkedIn
RSS Feed

Web Accessibility | Privacy Notice | Login














