







Office of Undergraduate Admissions | Parents & Families





































Skip to main content










Undergraduate  Admissions




















Visit UMD





Apply Now





Connect





Search







Academics 







All Programs


Colleges & Schools




Limited Enrollment Programs




LEP Admission for Current Students







        Want more information about our majors?
      

        Academics
      






Student Life






        Want to learn more about life as a Terp?
      

        Student Life
      



Housing & Dining


Student Support & Safety


Get Involved on Campus


Find Your Community







How To Apply







Freshman Applicants


Transfer Applicants




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program FAQs






International Applicants




English Language Proficiency
Obtaining a Visa
Financial Certification




Shady Grove Applicants




Shady Grove Terp Transfer Partnership






Application Deadlines


Admission Review Process & Factors


Application FAQs




Freshman Application FAQs
Transfer Application FAQ
Essay Questions
Submitting Documents







        Ready to apply?
      

        How to Apply
      






Tuition & Aid






        Need more information on cost of attendance at UMD,  financing your education and merit scholarships?
      

        Tuition & Aid
      



Cost of Attendance


Freshman Merit Scholarships


Transfer Merit Scholarships




Frederick Douglass Scholarship




Office of Student Financial Aid



























            Parents & Families
          

Parenting a college student can be a big change. Feel confident in their decision to attend the University of Maryland (UMD) and get familiar with the resources your student will have at their disposal.








Home

        Parents & Families
      








      SENDING YOUR STUDENT AWAY TO COLLEGE IS NERVE RACKING.
    





There may be a million questions running through your head, such as: Where are they going to live? Will they be safe? What will they eat? How will they make friends?  You may also be wondering about experiences they'll have both in and out of the classroom, and if it will prepare them for their future careers. Or about how to make college affordable. 
We hope reading through the information on this page will help you find answers to these questions and more, and feel confident that your student will thrive here at UMD.












As a parent, I understand how exciting—and daunting—the college search process can be. The staff in the Office of Undergraduate Admissions is available to you.






              Shannon Gundy
                    Assistant Vice President, Enrollment Management




















      Home Away From Home
    

During your student's time here, UMD will be their home away from home. Whether living on- or off-campus, Terps can find support from the Department of Resident Life or Off-Campus Housing Services and enjoy a variety of housing options.


Learn About Housing & Dining at UMD
Learn About Housing & Dining at UMD

















      Support for Your Student
    

We know that students thrive in a community they feel safe and supported in. From tutoring and counseling, to campus police and shuttles, UMD offers services to support students academically, care for their well-being and keep our campus safe.


Learn about support & safety at UMD
Learn more about support & safety at UMD












              The Student Experience
            

Terps make the most of their UMD experience not just in the classroom, but beyond. Opportunities to get involved, have fun and make a difference are as rich and diverse as the homemade ice cream flavors at the Maryland Dairy!








      Research
    

As soon as they step foot on campus, Terps can begin gaining deeper understanding of their academic field through faculty-mentored experiences that give UMD students authentic research skills to help advance their careers.


Learn about the Office of Undergraduate Research
Learn about the Office of Undergraduate Research









      Education Abroad
    

A UMD education extends beyond the classroom, and it goes beyond borders. Our Education Abroad office facilitates international experiences for more than 1,800 undergraduates each year. You can study abroad for a year, semester, summer or winter and globalize your network, earn credit towards your degree and gain skills critical to your professional success.


Learn about #TerpsAbroad
Learn more about Education Abroad at UMD









      800+ Clubs
    

With more than 800 clubs, fraternities/sororities and sports, getting involved at UMD couldn’t be easier.






Getting Involved on Campus
Learn more about getting involved on campus












              Preparing for Their Future
            

We're confident your students will succeed at UMD. Terps can take advantage of a variety of services to help them master classes and make connections across campus and beyond. We prepare students for life after graduation and give them opportunities to network and secure a job in their field of interest.













      Internships
    

Earning an internship is a great way to get real-world experience and jumpstart your career. With plenty of internship opportunities on campus and across the Baltimore-D.C. region, academic advisors and internship coordinators can help you get hands-on professional experience in a supervised environment.


Learn about finding internships









      Career Center
    

 Terps receive support at every stage of their career development and will be prepared to pursue a meaningful career path through high-quality services, resources and instruction. The Career Center reviews resumes, helps students practice interviewing skills, hosts career fairs across campus and more.


Explore UMD's Career Center









      Alumni Association
    


The connections students make on-campus continue past graduation. UMD's alumni are 405,000 strong and they continually help Terps get a footing in careers across the globe. The Alumni Association puts together all sorts of events, programs and initiatives to foster networking between students and alumni.



Discover the Alumni Association
Learn more about UMD's Alumni Association




















      Financing a Higher Education
    

We understand that without financial support, a college degree would be out of reach for many talented students. UMD has a long history of providing financial support to students of all economic backgrounds. We encourage you to learn more about the cost of attendance and types of aid available.


Learn About Tuition & Aid at UMD
Visit UMD's Tuition & financial aid page.
























        VISIT UMD
      

Your student(s) can only learn so much about a school from a website. We encourage them to see campus for themselves! Throughout the year we offer a variety of information sessions and tours.


Explore Our Calendar
Review our calendar of upcoming tours and information sessions.




        GET IN TOUCH
      

If you can't seem to find answers to your questions, feel free to reach out to the admission representative for your area! We're happy to help.


Meet Our Admission Reps
Get connected to the admission representative for your area.















        Resources
      




                Office of Family Engagement
              

The Office of Family Engagement offers support to you—as parents and family—so that you can, in turn, provide the necessary guidance, direction, advice, and support for your students. They also provide opportunities to get involved in the University of Maryland community and contribute to the educational experience of your student.


Get Involved with the Office of Family Engagement
Office of Family Engagement













                Office of Diversity & Inclusion
              

The University of Maryland strives to create an inclusive environment where every member of our community feels that they belong and are empowered to reach their full potential. The Office of Diversity & Inclusion provides many services, events and trainings in support of this mission.


Discover Diversity & Inclusion at UMD
Discover Diversity & Inclusion at UMD




















      There is a lot more to learn about UMD, so let's stay in touch!
    






Join Our Mailing List







Connect

















              Undergraduate Admissions
            

                  Mitchell Building
                

                  7999 Regents Dr.
                

                  College Park, MD 20742
                


1-800-422-5867
ApplyMaryland@umd.edu



























Majors & Minors


Student Life


Admissions Requirements


Application Deadlines
Application Deadlines


Tuition & Aid




              Information For:
            

Prospective Students


Parents & Families


Counselors & Advisors
Counselors & Advisors


Admitted Students










Visit UMD






Apply Now






Connect









umd.edu


Privacy Policy


Web Accessibility


        © 2023 UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND
      









