







Office of Undergraduate Admissions | Academics





































Skip to main content










Undergraduate  Admissions




















Visit UMD





Apply Now





Connect





Search







Academics 







All Programs


Colleges & Schools




Limited Enrollment Programs




LEP Admission for Current Students







        Want more information about our majors?
      

        Academics
      






Student Life






        Want to learn more about life as a Terp?
      

        Student Life
      



Housing & Dining


Student Support & Safety


Get Involved on Campus


Find Your Community







How To Apply







Freshman Applicants


Transfer Applicants




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program FAQs






International Applicants




English Language Proficiency
Obtaining a Visa
Financial Certification




Shady Grove Applicants




Shady Grove Terp Transfer Partnership






Application Deadlines


Admission Review Process & Factors


Application FAQs




Freshman Application FAQs
Transfer Application FAQ
Essay Questions
Submitting Documents







        Ready to apply?
      

        How to Apply
      






Tuition & Aid






        Need more information on cost of attendance at UMD,  financing your education and merit scholarships?
      

        Tuition & Aid
      



Cost of Attendance


Freshman Merit Scholarships


Transfer Merit Scholarships




Frederick Douglass Scholarship




Office of Student Financial Aid



























            Academics
          

The University of Maryland (UMD) is consistently recognized as one of the preeminent public research universities in the United States.


Explore All Programs
View a list of all programs at UMD








Home

        Academics
      








      STUDY HERE
    





Our Terps are fearless innovators, entrepreneurs, creators and doers. Our faculty includes Nobel laureates, Pulitzer Prize winners, members of the national academies and scores of Fulbright scholars, making UMD a global leader in research, entrepreneurship and innovation.








        By the numbers
      








      100+

          

      Undergraduate Majors
    



      18 : 1

          

      Student to Faculty Ratio
    
















      Choosing a Major
    

Whether you have a major in mind already or are still discovering your interests, we encourage you to explore our academic programs and learn about UMD's 12 colleges and schools. You can pick one major, double major or even create your own!












      Browse All Programs
    

All Terps can build an academic career that inspires their unique fearless ideas. Review majors, minors, certificate programs and more.


All Programs






      Get to Know UMD's Colleges & Schools
    

UMD is comprised of 12 colleges and schools, with more than 100 majors for undergraduates. Discover which of our colleges and schools inspire your fearless ideas and review their list of majors.


Colleges & Schools












              Beyond the Classroom
            

There is more to UMD than what you'll learn in the classroom. Explore some of the ways you can round out your education on campus and beyond.








      Research
    

As soon as they step foot on campus, Terps can begin gaining deeper understanding of their academic field through faculty-mentored experiences that give UMD students authentic research skills to help advance their careers.


Learn about the Office of Undergraduate Research
Learn about the Office of Undergraduate Research









      Internships
    

Earning an internship is a great way to get real-world experience and jumpstart your career. With plenty of internship opportunities on campus and across the Baltimore-D.C. region, academic advisors and internship coordinators can help you get hands-on professional experience in a supervised environment.


Learn about finding internships









      Education Abroad
    

A UMD education extends beyond the classroom, and it goes beyond borders. Our Education Abroad office facilitates international experiences for more than 1,800 undergraduates each year. You can study abroad for a year, semester, summer or winter and globalize your network, earn credit towards your degree and gain skills critical to your professional success.


Learn about #TerpsAbroad
Learn more about Education Abroad at UMD



















      Living-Learning Programs
    

Nothing connects students more than our highly regarded living-learning programs, where students with a common interest share residence halls, classrooms, faculty and friendships to dig deep into contemporary topics and get unique research experiences. Half of all first-year students find their niche in one of these programs.


Learn about living-learning programs
Learn more about Living Learning Programs












        Notable Alumni
      

Terps are Terps for life. They graduate from UMD more committed than ever to changing the world, whether by discovering technologies we rely on every day, tackling policy issues in our government, launching creative businesses and more. Take a look at who's #AlwaysATerp.




















          Kevin Plank '96
        

          Founder and CEO, Under Armour
        












          Gayle King '76
        

          Co-anchor, CBS Morning Show
        












          Jim Henson '60
        

          Creator, The Muppets
        












          Connie Chung '69
        

          Journalist, Emmy winner
        












          Dominique Dawes '02
        

          Medalist, Three-time Olympian
        












          Brendan Iribe '97
        

          Co-founder, Oculus
        












          Lawrence “Larry” David '70
        

          Actor and Writer, Seinfeld, Curb Your Enthusiasm
        












          Aaron McGruder '98
        

          Creator, The Boondocks
        












          Jasmine Snead '18, '21 MBA/MPP
        

          Co-founder, Aurora Tights
        












          Gail Berman '78
        

          Former President, Paramount Pictures, Fox Entertainment
        












          Robert Briskman '61
        

          Co-founder, Sirius XM
        












          Ethan Brown '97
        

          Founder and CEO, Beyond Meat
        












          Dianne Wiest '69
        

          Two-time Academy Award winner
        












          Jason Reynolds ’05
        

          New York Times best-selling author, “Long Way Down” and “All American Boys”.
        












          Jeff Kinney ‘93
        

          Author, Diary of a Wimpy Kid
        












          Robert Basham ’70
        

          Co-founder, Outback Steakhouse
        






















        Resources
      




                Undergraduate Catalog
              

The Undergraduate Catalog provides information pertaining to undergraduate academic programs, including course descriptions and program requirements, and sets forth the university's academic, registration and graduation policies and regulations.


Undergraduate Catalog













                Career Center
              

Your career path doesn't have to be linear, and there may be options for you that you may not have considered. Learn more about your field and industry of interest on UMD's Career Center website.


Explore UMD's Career Center




















      There is a lot more to learn about UMD, so let's stay in touch!
    






Join Our Mailing List







Connect

















              Undergraduate Admissions
            

                  Mitchell Building
                

                  7999 Regents Dr.
                

                  College Park, MD 20742
                


1-800-422-5867
ApplyMaryland@umd.edu



























Majors & Minors


Student Life


Admissions Requirements


Application Deadlines
Application Deadlines


Tuition & Aid




              Information For:
            

Prospective Students


Parents & Families


Counselors & Advisors
Counselors & Advisors


Admitted Students










Visit UMD






Apply Now






Connect









umd.edu


Privacy Policy


Web Accessibility


        © 2023 UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND
      









