











Students | University Career Center & The President's Promise











      Skip to main content
    














Main Menu




Explore Careers


Getting Started


Career Exposure


How to Gain Experience


Industries & Career Paths


Pursuing a Graduate Degree


Diversity & Identity Support


UMD Career Courses


Career Resources by College


Career Advising




Find Jobs & Internships


Resumes & Cover Letters


Building Your Network


Search Strategies


Interviewing


Internships


Offers & Salary Negotiation


Gap Year Opportunities


Student Employment




Events


Event Calendar


Career Fairs & Recruiting Events


Workshops


Industry Panels




Who We Help


Students


Employers


Alumni


Faculty & Staff


Parents & Families




Employers


Handshake













Who We Help


The Current Page is Students


Employers


Alumni


Faculty & Staff


Parents & Families









Home
Who We Help
Students




Students





We’ve got your back with every aspect of your career journey. It's never too early to begin the process, so whether you just want to know about the resources available or you're ready to chart a course, let us help you!
Most important is knowing where to start. Career development evolves in stages.  To get where you ultimately want to go, start with the stage that fits your current situation using the quick links below.





Quick Links



Career Resources by College
Doctoral & Postdoctoral Career Resources
Industries & Career Paths
Diversity & Identity Support


Handshake
Resumes & Cover Letters
Interviewing
Terp Guide
Where Do UMD Grads Work & Intern?








Explore All Center Resources









Career Exploration
Find what works for you. Take a self assessment, browse industries and career paths, and explore diversity & identity resources.

          Explore Your Options
       





Finding Jobs & Internships
Get experience and prepare yourself for the search. We have resources for every step of this process.

          Find Resources for You
       





Events
See what we offer daily in workshops, panels, and networking events to help your professional growth.

          Career Center Events 
       








Engage in Online Resources









FOCUS2
Complete self-assessments about your interests, work preferences, personality, and values to determine some potential career paths that may be a good fit specifically for you.






Firsthand
Gain helpful insight on a variety of industries and career paths through guides, blogs, and videos.






Big Interview
Practice your virtual interviewing skills with industry-specific interview questions or popular questions that have a tendency to make an appearance during an interview.






GoinGlobal
Learn about country-specific programs and resources to help you get abroad for internships and job opportunities.






LinkedIn Learning
Develop new skills to make you more marketable to the types of employers you are seeking out.












Resume Basics
This introductory Module includes information and activities to help students think critically about the content and formatting of effective resumes.



Informational Interviewing
Learn how informational interviewing helps support networking and your search process: identify and reach out to professional contacts for informational interviews via LinkedIn & Terrapins Connect, view sample outreach emails and thank you messages, and read through tips on how to make the most of the informational interview.



Doctoral Career Navigator
What are you going to do with your doctoral degree? This course will enable you to answer this question, get active about career planning and gain the skills needed to land internships, postdoc positions and jobs after graduation.















About Our Team


Meet With Us


Blog


Newsletter Signup


Visit


Handshake


Terp Guide








University Career Center & The President's Promise
3100 Hornbake Library, South Wing
301.314.7225





Visit our Twitter





Visit our Facebook





Visit our Instagram





Visit our Youtube












Handshake


Terrapins Connect


Accessibility


Privacy Policy





Back to Top









