







Office of Undergraduate Admissions | Prospective Students





































Skip to main content










Undergraduate  Admissions




















Visit UMD





Apply Now





Connect





Search







Academics 







All Programs


Colleges & Schools




Limited Enrollment Programs




LEP Admission for Current Students







        Want more information about our majors?
      

        Academics
      






Student Life






        Want to learn more about life as a Terp?
      

        Student Life
      



Housing & Dining


Student Support & Safety


Get Involved on Campus


Find Your Community







How To Apply







Freshman Applicants


Transfer Applicants




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program FAQs






International Applicants




English Language Proficiency
Obtaining a Visa
Financial Certification




Shady Grove Applicants




Shady Grove Terp Transfer Partnership






Application Deadlines


Admission Review Process & Factors


Application FAQs




Freshman Application FAQs
Transfer Application FAQ
Essay Questions
Submitting Documents







        Ready to apply?
      

        How to Apply
      






Tuition & Aid






        Need more information on cost of attendance at UMD,  financing your education and merit scholarships?
      

        Tuition & Aid
      



Cost of Attendance


Freshman Merit Scholarships


Transfer Merit Scholarships




Frederick Douglass Scholarship




Office of Student Financial Aid



























            Prospective Students
          

Ready to learn more about what it takes to #BeATerp? You're in the right place! We are here to help guide you through the University of Maryland (UMD) application and admission process.


How to Apply
Learn how to apply to UMD








Home

        Prospective Students
      








      GETTING STARTED
    





Get started on the right track, right from the beginning. Use the information on this page to understand exactly what you need to begin your journey to UMD.


















            FRESHMAN APPLICANTS
          

If you are a high school student or student with fewer than 12 semester hours or 18 quarter hours of university-level credit beyond secondary school, then you are considered a freshman applicant. Take advantage of the following resources to learn more.
It's never too early to start preparing for college. As you progress through your high school career, look for opportunities to demonstrate leadership skills, expand upon your non-academic interests and/or to get involved in your community. These are the types of things, along with a distinctive essay, that will help you stand out to our Admission Committee.
Freshman Profile
For the Fall 2022 freshman class, we received just over 56,000 applications for a class of 4,500. Due to UMD's test-optional policy, applicants were able to indicate whether they would submit standardized test scores for consideration in their application review. Admitted freshmen earned primarily As and Bs in a rigorous curriculum.



Freshman Requirements & Checklist
Freshman Applicant Requirements & Checklist


Freshman Application FAQs
Freshman Application FAQs





                    56k
                  

Applications received for a class of 4,500 for Fall 2022.




                    A's or B's
                  

Primarily earned in a rigorous curriculum.





                  Application Deadlines
                

                  U.S. Students
                



                      Early Action Deadline
                    

                      November 1
                    



                      Regular Deadline
                    

                      January 20
                    













            TRANSFER APPLICANTS
          

If you are a high school graduate who, at the time of applying, have completed at least 12 semester or 18 quarter hours after high school graduation at a regionally accredited college or university, then you are considered a transfer applicant. Take advantage of the following resources to learn more.
As a transfer student, we strongly encourage you to take advantage of UMD's transfer student resources which include academic planning, major and career exploration, and estimating when you’ll graduate from UMD.
Transfer Profile
For the Fall 2022 transfer class, we received more than 4,800 applications for a class of 1,750. Our most successful transfer students have a B average or better and have completed an English composition course that satisfies the university’s fundamental studies academic writing requirement and a college-level math course that satisfies the university’s fundamental studies math requirement.



Transfer Requirements & Checklist
Transfer Requirements & Checklist


Transfer Application FAQs
Transfer Application FAQs





                    4,800
                  

Applications received for a class of 1,750 for Fall 2022




                    B average or better
                  

Earned by our most successful transfer students.





                  Application Deadlines
                

                  U.S. Students
                



                      Fall Early Action Deadline
                    

                      March 1
                    



                      Spring Early Action Deadline
                    

                      August 1
                    













            INTERNATIONAL APPLICANTS
          

Freshman and transfer students are considered international applicants if they are non-U.S. citizens or non-permanent U.S. residents.
In addition to the freshman or transfer applicant requirements, international students must also satisfy international specific requirements such as English language proficiency and non-U.S. academic credential evaluations.
Please refer to the appropriate application deadline based on the semester you intend to enroll and whether you are applying as a freshman or transfer student.



International Requirements & Checklist
International Requirements & Checklist


Application FAQs
Application FAQs





                    4,777
                  

International students across campus.




                    114
                  

Countries represented at UMD.













            SHADY GROVE APPLICANTS
          

UMD at the Universities at Shady Grove (USG) applicants are students with approximately 60 transferable university-level credits who are interested in earning a UMD degree at the Shady Grove location.
UMD students studying at our Shady Grove location still have all of the benefits of being a Terp while enjoying a smaller campus environment.



Shady Grove Requirements & Checklist
Shady Grove Requirements & Checklist


Application FAQs
Application FAQs





                    4,000
                  

Nearly 4,000 students attend programs at USG each year.




                    11
                  

UMD majors at USG.





                  Application Deadlines
                



                      Fall Application Deadline
                    

                      June 1
                    



                      Spring Application Deadline
                    

                      November 15
                    













              SPECIAL AUDIENCES
            

We understand no two applicants are the same and not every applicant fits neatly into the category of freshmen or transfer student. That is why we will consider your specific circumstances through an application process developed just for you.





    Agriculture Forward at Maryland
  


Agriculture Forward at Maryland is an access program for students who plan to pursue a career in agriculture and natural resources. Participants in the Ag Forward program receive dual academic advising from the Institute of Applied Agriculture (IAA) and College of Agriculture and Natural Resources (AGNR) faculty members to ensure all program requirements are met. At the end of four years, students who have met all program requirements graduate with both an IAA certificate and a bachelor’s degree from their selected AGNR major.





    Concurrent Enrollment
  


You can enroll at the University of Maryland (UMD) even before you graduate from high school. We allow talented high school seniors to take up to two courses or seven credits during the fall, spring and summer semesters. We’re looking for students who’ve demonstrated exceptional performance and ability in a rigorous high school program.
To apply, submit a completed application, high school transcript, an essay explaining why you’re interested in attending UMD concurrently, a letter of recommendation from your high school and a letter of permission from your parents or legal guardians. You also must live within commuting distance. In order to be considered, students must apply by the following deadlines:
Spring: January 2
Summer: May 1
Fall: August 1





    General Education Development (GED)
  


If you did not graduate from a regionally accredited high school, then you will need to submit results of the Tests of General Education Development, along with academic letters of recommendation, an essay and SAT scores with your UMD application.





    Golden ID Program
  


If you are 60 or older, a legal resident of the state of Maryland and retired, the University of Maryland has courses and services available to you. To participate in the Golden ID program, you must submit a completed UMD application. If admitted to the university, you can register on a space-available basis for credit courses as a regular or special student in any session. You must pay an administrative fee for each semester registered.





    Home-Schooled Students
  


If you’ve been home-schooled, you should submit your completed UMD application and provide a transcript with the following: course descriptions, books used, methods of evaluation and grades received. You should meet the same minimum high school course requirements expected of all applicants; your SAT and/or ACT scores will be strongly considered in the review of your application.
Please also include general information about your home-schooling program or agency and a letter of recommendation from both an academic professional and the home-schooling teacher/parent. If you’ve taken college-level courses, you should also include an official college transcript with your application.





    Non-Degree Seeking Students
  


Transfer students interested in taking courses at UMD without pursuing a degree must apply for admission as non-degree seeking students using the transfer application.
If you have not completed a bachelor’s degree, you must submit a completed application, official transcripts from all colleges and universities previously attended and the application fee.
If you have already completed a bachelor's degree, transcripts are not required. However, since you may need to demonstrate that you have met prerequisites, we recommend having one available to provide.
If you wish to enroll for one semester as a visiting student and transfer the coursework back to your home institution, you must submit the transfer application, official transcripts, the application fee and a letter of permission from an academic advisor or dean at your home institution.
 
On the application, please be sure to indicate that you are applying as a "non-degree seeking" student. You will be reviewed under the same standards for admission as degree-seeking students and we cannot guarantee that non-degree seeking applications received after the application deadline will be reviewed.
Non-degree seeking students wishing to take a single course during a summer or winter term must complete the application available on the Office of Extended Studies website.





    Post-Baccalaureate Programs
  


If you earned a bachelor's degree and wish to apply for admission to earn another undergraduate degree or to take courses as a non-degree seeking student at UMD, you will use the transfer application in StandOut Admissions Network. Follow the transfer applicant requirements. For more information on applying as a non-degree seeking student, please review the previous Non-Degree Seeking Student section on this page. 
Students interested in Science in the Evening or Hearing and Speech in the Evening should apply through the Office of Extended Studies Post-Baccalaureate Programs.





    Re-enrollment
  


Re-enrollment pertains only to students who have previously attended the University of Maryland, College Park. If you are interested in returning to the university after a period of dismissal or withdrawal, then you can complete a re-enrollment application. Students who attended on a "term only" basis or who were admitted to the university but did not attend must complete a regular application for undergraduate admission. For more information about the re-enrollment process, please visit the Student Success Office website.





    School of Music Applicants
  


If you’re interested in the School of Music, you will need to submit the online application supplement and complete an audition by November 1 for an early action decision or by December 1 for a regular decision. The application supplement and audition will only be used to determine your eligibility for admission into the School of Music and will not be used in the review of your eligibility for admission to UMD. For more information, please visit the School of Music website or email their office at musicadmissions@umd.edu.





    Undocumented Students
  


The University of Maryland is committed to creating a welcoming and inclusive environment for all students, including undocumented students. 





    U.S. Veterans
  


Thank you for your service! As a veteran, you face unique challenges navigating the admission process and we want to support you through it. At the University of Maryland, you are considered a veteran if you’re currently enlisted or have served in the U.S. armed forces or one of its reserve units. We highly encourage veterans like you to apply to Maryland, where we look forward to helping you achieve your personal and academic goals and get involved in campus life. As a Principles of Excellence Program institution, we are committed to helping you continue your education and get involved in Veteran Student Life.
Freshman
Freshman applicants are students who did not attend college out of high school and have not earned more than 12 college credits. To be considered for freshman admission, you need to submit the completed application, your high school transcript and letters of recommendation from current or former military superiors or civilian supervisors. If you’ve been out of school more than three years, you don’t need to submit SAT or ACT scores. Please review all requirements for freshman applicants. We do not need proof of military documentation until after you are offered admission to the university. To help us determine eligibility for student aid and priority registration, during the application process you will be asked to upload a copy of your Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (DD form 214). For information regarding application fee waiver eligibility, please review our Fee Waivers page.
Transfer
Transfer applicants should have attended college after high school or while you were on active duty and earned at least 12 college credits. Credit for basic military training is awarded to qualified students based on submission of required documentation. However, the Joint Services Transcript does not count towards the 12 credits necessary to be a transfer student or the 30 credits necessary to no longer be required to submit high school information. Visit the basic military credit policy for details. Please review all requirements for transfer applicants. We do not need proof of military documentation until after you are offered admission to the university. To help us determine eligibility for student aid and priority registration, during the application process you will be asked to upload a copy of your Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (DD form 214). For information regarding application fee waiver eligibility, please review our Fee Waivers page.
























        VISIT UMD
      

You can only learn so much about a school from a website. Even if we tell you how beautiful our campus is, or how fantastic our students and faculty are, you will not know for yourself until you experience it for yourself!


PLAN YOUR VISIT
View upcoming tours and information sessions on our calendar.




        VIRTUAL TOUR
      

Unable to make it to campus? Explore our beautiful campus from anywhere in the world!





















      There is a lot more to learn about UMD, so let's stay in touch!
    






Join Our Mailing List







Connect

















              Undergraduate Admissions
            

                  Mitchell Building
                

                  7999 Regents Dr.
                

                  College Park, MD 20742
                


1-800-422-5867
ApplyMaryland@umd.edu



























Majors & Minors


Student Life


Admissions Requirements


Application Deadlines
Application Deadlines


Tuition & Aid




              Information For:
            

Prospective Students


Parents & Families


Counselors & Advisors
Counselors & Advisors


Admitted Students










Visit UMD






Apply Now






Connect









umd.edu


Privacy Policy


Web Accessibility


        © 2023 UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND
      









