












Black Women's Studies Minor | The Harriet Tubman Department of Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies





      Skip to main content
    


Skip to main content









Apply


Give


Trigger Search



Search this Site

Go



        Menu
        
Trigger Menu









Close

Search this Site

Go



Primary Header Navigation


ARHU Home


Home


About


Why Harriet Tubman?


Mission


History




Academic Programs


Courses


Undergraduate Programs


Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies B.A.


Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies Certificate


LGBTQ Studies Certificate


LGBTQ Studies Minor


Black Women's Studies Minor


Advising


Experiential Learning and Individual Study


Scholarships and Awards


Rodler-Wood Endowed Scholarship


National Women’s Studies Association Conference Award


Novak Family TerpStart Endowed Scholarship in LGBT Studies


Academic Enrichment Grants for Women’s Studies Majors




Careers and Professional Development


Student Community




Graduate Programs


Ph.D. Admissions


Ph.D. Program


Ph.D. Funding and Awards


Graduate Certificate Program






Research


Indigenous Futures Lab


D.C. Queer Studies


DC Queer Studies Symposium 2023




Interventions Biennial Graduate Conference




Spaces and Resources






Secondary Header Navigation


News


Events


People


Prospective Students


Current Students


Faculty and Staff


Alumni


Contact Us











Black Women's Studies Minor






Breadcrumb


Home


Academic Programs


Undergraduate Programs











The minor in Black women’s studies, offered jointly with the Department of African American Studies, gives students an opportunity to critically engage theories and histories of justice and social change within the Black community, both nationally and transnationally.


















Department Faculty
Affiliate Faculty
Current Courses




The Joint Minor in Black Women's Studies

The minor sits at the intersection of race, gender, class and sexuality and allows students to bring a critical race critique to their primary area of study and a range of future employment possibilities, such as nonprofit management, social justice advocacy, law, health-related fields, student affairs and government and public policy.








Make an advising appointment











Requirements


The Black Women's Studies Minor consists of 15 total credits, 9 of which are at the 300 or 400 level. No course with a grade less than “C-” may be used to satisfy minor requirements, and an overall GPA of 2.0 in the minor is required for graduation. No more than 6 credits can overlap with a major.Foundation Courses: 6 credits, two courses
1. Introductory Course – 3 credits – Choose one course from these three
WMST263/AASP 298I: “Introduction to Black Women’s Studies”
WMST265/AASP298B: “Construction of Manhood and Womanhood in the Black Community”
*WMST264/LGBT 264: “Quare/Queer Contentions: Explorations of Sexualities in the Black Community”
2. Historical Course – 3 credits – Choose one course from these three
WMST314/AASP313: “Black Women in U.S. History”
AASP498I/HIST360/WMST498M: “Women and the Civil Rights Movement”
*AASP398G: “Gender, Labor, and Racial Identity in Diasporic Communities”
Electives: 9 credits (3 courses) – Of the 9 elective credits, 6 credits must be upper-level (300 or 400)
A list of the eligible courses available each semester will be available from the program advisor during the registration period.
Comparative Coursework Requirement– Of the 15 total credits, 3 must come from a comparative or non-U.S. course, indicated on the course list below with an *.




Approved Course Offerings


Lower Level Courses
WGSS263/AASP298I/AASP203: “Introduction to Black Women’s Studies”
*WGSS264/LGBT264: “Quare/Queer Contentions: Explorations of Sexualities in the Black Community”
WGSS265/AASP298B: “Constructions of Manhood and Womanhood in the Black Community”
WGSS267: “Introduction to Black Women’s Cultural Studies”
WGSS291: “Racialized Gender and Rebel Media”
THET240: “African Americans in Film and Theater”
Upper Level Courses
 WGSS314/AASP 313: “Black Women in U.S. History”
*WGSS360: “Caribbean Women”
*ENGL362: “Caribbean Literature in English”
 WGSS370: “Black Feminist Thought”
*AASP398G: “Gender, Labor, and Racial Identity in Diasporic Communities”
*WGSS410: “Women of the African Diaspora”
 WGSS448/ENGL448: “Special Topics in Women’s Studies”: Acceptable courses include: *”Caribbean Literature by Women”, *”Women Writers of the African Diaspora”
 AASP398U: “Selected Topics in the African Diaspora; Angela Davis”
 ENGL439A: “Spotlight on Major Writers; Toni Morrison: Race, Gender, & American Culture”
*FREN478B: “Themes and Movements of French Literature in Translation: Francophone Women Writers”
 WGSS488: “Senior Seminar”: Acceptable courses include –“Black Women in the Public Eye”, “Black Women and the Arts”
 AASP483: “Gender, Sexuality and the Black Family”
 AASP493: “Feminist and Nationalist Thought in the Black Community”
 AASP498: “Special Topics in Black Culture”: Acceptable topics include – “Race, Gender & Labor”; “Black Masculinities in Art, Music & Dance”; “Black Women in Popular Culture: From the Blues to Beyonce”
 AASP498I/HIST360/WMST498M: “Women and the Civil Rights Movement”
 AASP 499C/ WGSS498R Race and Reproduction
 WGSS 496/THET496: “African American Women Filmmakers”
 WGSS498Z: “Black Women’s Art and Culture”
 




Old Program  Requirements


Note: Students admitted after 2020 should follow the requirements described above. These requirements are for students admitted prior to 2020.
Requires 15 credits; including 9 credits at the 300-400 level distributed as follows:
WMST263/AASP298I/AASP203: “Introduction to Black Women’s Studies”
Introduction to Black women’s studies, Black women’s history, lives, political thought, and cultural practices. Comparing Black women’s own self-perceptions and behaviors with the social norms and ideals about women within the Black community and in the larger society, the course examines the racial/sexual politics of Black women’s lives.
OR
WMST 265/AASP 298B/AASP 213: “Constructions of Manhood and Womanhood in the Black Community”
Investigates the ways that African Americans are represented and constructed in public and private spheres and explores the social constructions and representations of Black manhood and womanhood from various disciplinary perspectives.
AND
WMST314/AASP313: “Black Women in U.S. History”
Covering African American women’s history from slavery to the present by applying analytical frameworks of race, gender and class to understand the life cycles and multiple roles of women of the African diaspora as mothers, daughters, wives, workers and social change agents.
Additional Course Requirements
One course (3 credits) from Area I – Comparative or Non-US course
One course (3 credits) from Area II – Humanities
One course (3 credits) from Area III – Social Sciences
No course with a grade less than “C-” may be used to satisfy major requirements, and an overall
GPA of 2.0 in the major is required for graduation.
 

















WGSS Undergraduate Alumni
Learn more about the career and life paths of our alumni, who work in fields ranging from law to social work.
Alumni Testimonials



















Additional Resources


Graduation and Commencement


Undergraduate Programs




















													Harriet Tubman Department of Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies
													3121 Susquehanna Hall, University of Maryland
													4200 Lehigh Road
												College Park, MD 20742
301.405.6877
wgss@umd.edu







Primary Footer Navigation


ARHU Home


Home


About


Academic Programs


Research


Spaces and Resources








Secondary Footer Navigation


News


Events


People


Prospective Students


Current Students


Faculty and Staff


Alumni


Contact Us












Follow Us





Facebook




Twitter




Instagram




Flickr




© 2024 University of Maryland

Log In
Privacy Policy
Web Accessibility













