







Office of Undergraduate Admissions | Shady Grove Applicants





































Skip to main content










Undergraduate  Admissions




















Visit UMD





Apply Now





Connect





Search







Academics 







All Programs


Colleges & Schools




Limited Enrollment Programs




LEP Admission for Current Students







        Want more information about our majors?
      

        Academics
      






Student Life






        Want to learn more about life as a Terp?
      

        Student Life
      



Housing & Dining


Student Support & Safety


Get Involved on Campus


Find Your Community







How To Apply







Freshman Applicants


Transfer Applicants




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program FAQs






International Applicants




English Language Proficiency
Obtaining a Visa
Financial Certification




Shady Grove Applicants




Shady Grove Terp Transfer Partnership






Application Deadlines


Admission Review Process & Factors


Application FAQs




Freshman Application FAQs
Transfer Application FAQ
Essay Questions
Submitting Documents







        Ready to apply?
      

        How to Apply
      






Tuition & Aid






        Need more information on cost of attendance at UMD,  financing your education and merit scholarships?
      

        Tuition & Aid
      



Cost of Attendance


Freshman Merit Scholarships


Transfer Merit Scholarships




Frederick Douglass Scholarship




Office of Student Financial Aid



























            Shady Grove Applicants
          

If you want to earn your degree from the University of Maryland, but are looking for a small, close-knit community, then consider becoming a Terp at our Shady Grove location!


Standout Admissions Network
Apply through the Standout Admissions Network











Home

        Shady Grove Applicants
      








APPLY AT SHADY GROVE






Students with approximately 60 transferable credits who are interested in earning a University of Maryland (UMD) degree at The Universities at Shady Grove should review information specific to the Shady Grove location.






The University of Maryland (UMD) at The Universities at Shady Grove provides all the prestige and benefits of a UMD education during your final two years of undergraduate study. At Shady Grove, located in Rockville, MD, you’ll work side-by-side with top-notch professors from nationally ranked academic programs. Faculty will support your goals and guide you to great research and internship opportunities, as well as a growing number of social and academic clubs. Best of all, you’ll earn the same University of Maryland degree as you would if you attended classes at the College Park location!














      Admissions Information
    

Most competitive applicants have completed approximately 60 applicable credits, achieved junior standing and completed General Education requirements. Most credits earned at Maryland community colleges will transfer and you can choose from a variety of majors, with classes offered at times that meet your schedule.


General Education Requirements
General Education Requirements for Shady Grove Applicants




















      Shady Grove's UMD Page
    

Requirements for admission are program-specific and more information can be found on Shady Grove's UMD page. Admission decisions are made on a rolling basis once a completed application is received. Once an admission decision has been made, applicants are notified in writing.


Shady Grove UMD
Shady Grove's UMD page for more information on requirements for admission




















      Terp Transfer Partnership
    

Montgomery College students who plan to transfer to a UMD Bachelor’s degree program at the Shady Grove location can take advantage of the Terp Transfer Partnership to gain early access to advising, workshops and events.


Explore this Program
explore the terp transfer partnership program



























        Deadlines
      



fall
                            Enrollment Deadline
            


                    June 1
                  
U.S. citizens



                    June 1
                  
International students




spring
                            Enrollment Deadline
            


                    November 15
                  
U.S. citizens



                    August 1
                  
International students














          Early Action Deadline - Aug 1
        

Early Action applications must be marked fully complete by the August 1 deadline for best consideration.


Standout Admissions Network
Apply through the Standout Admissions Network











      Application Checklist
    








                          Step
                        1




            Completed online application
          

This application is for students with approximately 60 college credits who are interested in transferring to UMD at Shady Grove to complete their junior- and senior-level coursework and earn a bachelor’s degree. All additional required application materials must be electronically submitted or postmarked by the appropriate deadline.






                          Step
                        2




            Nonrefundable application fee of $75
          

When completing your University of Maryland (UMD) application, you will be required to pay the $75 application fee on our secure website with a credit card unless you have received a fee waiver. Fee waivers must be submitted prior to application completion for consideration. We cannot accept cash or check payments.






                          Step
                        3




            Official copy of your college transcripts and list of courses in progress
          

Each institution you've attended must submit an official copy of your college transcripts listing all courses you have attempted. A final official transcript from your current institution must be sent upon completion of any courses in progress.
All official transcripts are required by the application deadline for review. UMD accepts transfer credits taken only from regionally accredited institutions. UMD’s Transfer Credit Services will determine the acceptance of credit after the university extends an offer of admission.






                          Step
                        4




            Letter of recommendation (optional)
          

You may choose to submit a letter of recommendation with your application. Recommendations must be sent to us directly from the recommender, and they can be written by anyone of the applicants' choosing including teachers, counselors, coaches and mentors.






                          Step
                        5




            Activities and awards list or resume (optional)
          

Detail your efforts in the community, arts, leadership, athletics, family involvements, work experience and other extracurricular activities and hobbies in order of interest to you.
You can submit this information via your StandOut Admissions Network Profile Activities/Experience section or by uploading a separate document.









If you are mailing any application materials, please send them to:
University of MarylandOffice of Undergraduate AdmissionsMitchell Building, 7999 Regents Dr.College Park, MD 20742-5235, USA









              How to Submit Your Application
            

Applications are considered complete when the online application and all required documents have been submitted. All materials must be submitted electronically or postmarked by the appropriate deadline for consideration.
Through your StandOut Admissions Network account, you can:
Track your application statusConfirm receipt of application materials onlineReceive your electronic admission decision when it becomes available
It may take up to two weeks for recently submitted materials to be listed as received on your checklist and it is the applicant’s responsibility to confirm receipt of all application materials through StandOut Admissions Network.
If you have non-U.S. academic records for post-secondary work, please review our international applicant requirements as they might apply to you.



Submitting Documents
Learn more about how to submit application materials

















      There is a lot more to learn about UMD, so let's stay in touch!
    






Join Our Mailing List







Connect

















              Undergraduate Admissions
            

                  Mitchell Building
                

                  7999 Regents Dr.
                

                  College Park, MD 20742
                


1-800-422-5867
ApplyMaryland@umd.edu



























Majors & Minors


Student Life


Admissions Requirements


Application Deadlines
Application Deadlines


Tuition & Aid




              Information For:
            

Prospective Students


Parents & Families


Counselors & Advisors
Counselors & Advisors


Admitted Students










Visit UMD






Apply Now






Connect









umd.edu


Privacy Policy


Web Accessibility


        © 2023 UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND
      









