










Cinema and Media Studies Major | School of Languages, Literatures, and Cultures





      Skip to main content
    


Skip to main content









Apply


Give


Trigger Search



Search this Site

Go



        Menu
        
Trigger Menu









Close

Search this Site

Go



Primary Header Navigation


ARHU Home


Home


About


Degrees


Undergraduate Programs


Undergraduate Advising


Special Undergraduate Programs


Winter Session




Graduate Programs


Graduate Resources






Fields of Study


Arabic


Arabic Studies Major


Arabic Minor


Arabic Flagship


Arabic Program Scholarships


Arabic Studies Faculty


Arabic Studies and Arabic Flagship




Chinese


Chinese Major


Chinese Language Minor


Chinese Program Awards


Chinese Program Faculty




Cinema and Media Studies


Cinema and Media Studies Major


Cinema and Media Studies Undergraduate Advising


Film Studies Graduate Field Committee


Cinema and Media Studies Courses


Cinema and Media Studies Faculty


Cinema and Media Studies Careers


Cinema and Media Studies Program Awards




East Asian Studies


East Asian Studies Certificate


East Asian Studies Courses


East Asian Studies Faculty




French


French Undergraduate Program


French Graduate Program


French Program Courses


French Program Alumni


French Program Giving


French Program People




German Studies


German Studies Undergraduate Program


German Language and Literature Graduate Program


Germanic Studies People




Hebrew


Gender inclusive Hebrew


Hebrew Studies Minor




Italian


Italian Studies Major


Italian Language and Culture Minor


Italian Program Advising


Italian Honor Society




Japanese


Japanese Major


Japanese Program Scholarships


Japanese Minor


Japanese Program Advising


Japanese Program Alumni Placement


Japanese Program Faculty




Korean


Korean Studies Minor


Korean Studies Advising


Korean Studies Courses




Persian Studies


About Persian Studies


Persian Studies Undergraduate Program


Community Engagement


Persian Studies Graduate Program


Persian Studies Courses


Persian Studies People




Portuguese


Portuguese Language, Literature and Culture Minor


Portuguese Program Faculty




Romance Languages


Romance Languages Major




Russian


Russian Language and Literature Major


Russian Studies Minor


Russian Studies Advising


Russian Studies Courses


National Slavic Honors Society


Maya Brin Residency


Past Maya Brin Residents




Second Language Acquisition


Second Language Acquisition Graduate Research


Second Language Acquisition Ph.D.


Second Language Acquisition M.A.


Second Language Acquisition Graduate Certificate


Second Language Acquisition Undergraduate Opportunities


Second Language Acquisition Courses


Second Language Acquisition People


Second Language Acquisition Alumni




Spanish


Spanish Translation and Interpretation Services


Spanish Undergraduate Programs


Spanish & Portuguese Program Awards


Spanish Language, Literatures, and Culture Major


Spanish Program Internship Program


Spanish Heritage Language and Latina/o Culture Minor


Teacher Certification




Spanish Graduate Programs


Spanish Language and Literature Ph.D.


Spanish Ph.D. Dissertation Abstracts


Spanish Language and Literature M.A.


Hispanic Applied Linguistics M.A.


Spanish Program Graduate Funding


Animal de Fondo




Spanish Program Alumni


Spanish Program People


Lecture Series and Study Groups


Juan Ramón Jiménez Series


Hoy: Interdisciplinary Approaches to the Present


José Emilio Pacheco Series




Give to the Spanish Program






Special Programs


Less Commonly Taught Languages (BTAA)


Roshan Institute for Persian Studies


Center for East Asian Studies


CEAS Members




Special Programs in Arabic and Persian


Arabic Flagship


Apply to the Arabic Flagship Program


Arabic Flagship Faculty and Staff


Arabic Flagship Student Resources


Arabic Flagship Scholarships and Funding


Give to the Arabic Flagship Program




Persian Flagship


Apply to the Persian Flagship Program


Persian Flagship Faculty and Staff


Persian Flagship Students


Persian Flagship Language Partners


Persian Flagship Scholarships and Funding


Persian Capstone




Project GO


Apply to Project Go


Project Go Arabic Program


Project Go Persian Program


Resources for Project GO Students




Special Programs in Arabic and Persian Directory




Education Abroad


Education Abroad Scholarships


Chinese Education Abroad


French Education Abroad


Italian Education Abroad


Japanese Education Abroad


Spanish Education Abroad




Language House Living and Learning Program


Prospective Students and Mentors


Residential and Student Life


Language Clusters


Language House Student Activities Advisory Board




Language House People


Give to The Language House




Summer Language Institutes


Korean Summer Language Institute


Summer Language Institute Cultural Activities


Apply to the Summer Language Institutes


Arabic Summer Language Institute


Persian Summer Language Institute




Language Partner Program


Korean Cluster




Research and Innovation


Center for Innovation in Teaching and Learning




Diversity


Commencement






Secondary Header Navigation


News


Calendar


People


Prospective Students


Current Students


Faculty and Staff Resources


Contact Us











Cinema and Media Studies Major






Breadcrumb


Home


Fields of Study


Cinema and Media Studies











"For me, the cinema is not a slice of life, but a piece of cake."
-- Alfred Hitchcock

















Related Links

Cinema and Media Studies Home
Cinema and Media Studies Undergraduate Advising
Cinema and Media Studies Careers
Cinema and Media Studies Courses
Cinema and Media Studies Faculty




The Undergraduate Major in Cinema and Media Studies has been designed by faculty across the College of Arts and Humanities to enable students to explore the aesthetic, cultural, economic, historical, and technological dimensions of the most globally influential art forms of the twentieth- and twenty-first centuries. 
This 39-credit major is based on a critical and textual approach to cinema and media, emphasizing scholarly viewing, interpreting, and writing about moving images. It provides students with a solid background in theoretical, critical, and aesthetic aspects of the study of cinema and media, including the history of the medium and the analysis of national cinemas throughout the world, always keeping in view questions of how new media have changed both cinema itself and the study of cinema. As an art form that has been international in nature and global in reach from its inception, cinema challenges students to think globally and understand the systems of transnational exchange that have characterized this medium. The Cinema and Media Studies major brings together courses in cinema from varied nations, languages, and cultures.
The Cinema and Media Studies major has four parts: a prerequisite course in Film Form (ENGL/CINE 245), a two-course Cinema and Media History and Theory Foundation (CINE 301 and CINE 302), six courses in various Cinema and Media Studies Areas, and four Cinema and Media Studies Electives. The first two parts of the program assure that students have the necessary analytical tools and historical background to interpret diverse global cinematic traditions. The Cinema and Media Studies Areas and Cinema and Media Studies Electives offer students the opportunity to explore genres, themes, and movements across different historical periods and to develop their skills in analysis, writing, and research.













General Policies


1. The Cinema and Media Studies major requires 39 credits (13 courses).
2. A grade of C- or better is required in each of the courses making up the 39 credits of the major.
3. Up to nine (9) credits may be taken at the 200-level.
4. At least 6 of the 39 credits must be at the 400-level.




Required Credits


THE CINEMA AND MEDIA STUDIES MAJOR REQUIRES 39 CREDITS, DISTRIBUTED AS FOLLOWS: 
1. FILM FORM (3 CREDITS)
CINE 245/ENGL 245 Film Form and Culture (fulfils Gen Ed req. in Humanities) 
Cinema and Media Studies majors must take CINE/ENGL 245 before they take other 300- or 400-level Film Studies courses. We recommend that it be taken no later than sophomore year. 
2. CINEMA AND MEDIA STUDIES HISTORY AND THEORY FOUNDATION (6 CREDITS) 
Prerequisite for both courses: CINE 245/ENGL 245. 
CINE 301 Cinema History I: The Silent EraCINE 302 Cinema History II: The Sound Era Students may take the two courses in any order. 
Revised 11/18/21 
3. CINEMA AND MEDIA STUDIES AREAS (18 CREDITS) 
Courses in these distribution requirements must be taken at the 300-level or above; at least one must be taken at the 400-level. 
A. One course (3 credits) in Cinema and Media Theories
B. Two courses (6 credits) in Genres/Auteurs/Movements
C. Two courses (6 credits) in National and International Cinemas
D. One course (3 credits) in Documentary, Animation, Experimental Cinema or other Visual Media 
4. CINEMA AND MEDIA STUDIES ELECTIVES (12 CREDITS) 
Up to two courses in this category may be taken at the 200-level. At least one must be taken at the 400-level. Please consult the full list of courses accepted for the major. 
Option One: 12 credits, distributed as follows:
A. At least two courses (6 credits) from CINE, any topic or area
B. Up to two courses (6 credits) of cinema and media studies-related courses from other programs, as approved by the program Advisor. 
Option Two: 12 credits
A. Four courses (12 credits) in cinema and media studies, selected to create a coherent emphasis. The four courses should be selected in consultation with the Film Studies Advisor to allow students to explore a specific area of interest or an area related to their future academic or professional plans. 














Program Advisor










                            
                Marianne
                
                                       Conroy
                      


 Lecturer, English 
  Cinema and Media Studies  


            3229 Tawes Hall
                            College Park
                                        MD,
                                        20742
                      
(301) 405-9651














Cinema and Media Studies Advising








Program Director










                            
                Caroline
                
                                       Eades
                      


 Professor, School of Languages, Literatures, and Cultures 
  Professor,  French 
  Professor,  Cinema and Media Studies 
  Affiliate Professor,  Classics 


            2105 Susquehanna Hall
                            College Park
                                        MD,
                                        20742
                      
(301) 405-4029

















Additional Resources


Cinema and Media Studies in the UMD Academic Catalog


Testudo




















													School of Languages, Literatures, and Cultures
													3215 Jimenez Hall 
												College Park, MD 20742
301.405.4025







Primary Footer Navigation


ARHU Home


Home


About


Degrees


Fields of Study


Special Programs


Research and Innovation


Diversity


Commencement








Secondary Footer Navigation


Apply


Give


News


Events


People


Prospective Students


Current Students


Faculty & Staff Resources


Contact Us












Follow Us





Facebook




Twitter




Instagram




Youtube




Vimeo




Flickr




© 2024 University of Maryland

Log In
Privacy Policy
Web Accessibility













