









Bachelor of Science | Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering















Skip to main content

Shape Copy 6Shape Copy 18ShapeShapenext month copynext month


A. James Clark School of Engineering, University of Maryland
Mobile Navigation Trigger








Search this site for:








Home



Main Menu





Mobile Navigation Trigger Reverse





eng.umd.edu

Contact

Apply

Give

Recruit





About


Mission

Faculty

Staff 

External Advisory Board



Undergraduate


Degrees


Bachelor of Science


Sample Undergraduate Program for Students Who Entered Fall 2012 and later


Current Technical Electives



Sample Undergraduate Program for Students Who Entered from Fall 2010 to Spring 2012


Older Technical Electives for Students Who Entered from Fall 2010 to Spring 2012





Combined B.S/M.S. Program


Combined B.S./M.S. Sample Programs

Guide to Combined B.S./M.S. Program



Combined B.S./MSSE Program


Combined B.S./MSSE: Sample Program

FAQ: Combined B.S./MSSE Program



Core CHBE Course Descriptions



Prospective Students


Admissions


Summer Pathways Scholarship



Career Paths

Financial Aid

Location perks

Events for Prospective Students



Current Students


Advising & Support


Degree Audits

Academic Policies



Forms

Courses

Scholarships

Student Groups

Study Abroad

Combined B.S./M.S. Program

Combined B.S./MSSE Program



Student Stories

Accreditation



Graduate


Degrees


Doctor of Philosophy


Transition Program

Ph.D. Research Aptitude Exam

Ph.D. Dissertation Proposal

Ph.D. Defense



Master of Science


Graduate Prerequisites and GPA

Undergraduate Courses for Graduate Credit



Master of Engineering

Graduate Certificate



Prospective Students


Admissions & Deadlines

Financial Support

Housing & Transportation

International Applicants

Location



Current Students


Advising & Support


International Students

Courses

Mentoring Guidelines



Awards

Commencement

Future Faculty Program

Graduate Forms

Graduate Student Association

Scholarships & Fellowships

FAQ

Tuition and Fees



Student Stories



Research


Labs

Partnerships & Initiatives

Research News



Alumni & Industry


Alumni Network

Partner with CHBE



News


CHBE Newsletter

Press Releases

Student Stories



Events


CHBE Seminar Series

Student Events

Student Showcase









eng.umd.edu

Contact

Apply

Give

Recruit





Faculty Directory

Staff Directory

Careers

Media

ClarkNet




Facebook
Twitter
Youtube
Linkedin














Equipping students to solve grand challenges
CoursesContact an Advisor 








HomeUndergraduateDegreesBachelor of Science 
Bachelor of Science








Current Sample Undergraduate Program 2012 and laterOlder Sample Undergraduate Program 2010-2012 



Mission
The educational mission of the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering is to provide students with a fundamental understanding of physical, chemical and biological processes and with the ability to apply molecular and biomolecular information and methods of discovery into products and the processes by which they are made. Our program provides the unique interdisciplinary academic foundation and scholarly training needed to address complex engineering problems with emphasis on the advancing fields of biological engineering and nanotechnology.
Four Year Academic Plans and Curriculum Sheets
All incoming freshmen must develop an academic plan, which maps out all courses needed to graduate within your intended major and degree. The Clark School's Undergraduate Advising web site includes sample plan templates formatted for easy revision and instructions for creating a personalized academic plan. Learn more about Clark School 4-year plans and download templates.
The CHBE Undergraduate Curriculum
Students must complete 125 credits and fulfill all Departmental, College, and University requirements with a cumulative grade point average of 2.0. The CHBE Curriculum is composed of the following elements: 
General Education Requirements of UMD College ParkSee the University's General Education site for course listings and requirements.
	 
Fundamental Subjects
	Mathematics (4 semesters), physics (3 semesters), chemistry (5 semesters, including general, organic, bioanalytical, and biochemistry), biology (1 semester), and engineering sciences courses required of all engineering students.
	 
40 Credits of CHBE Courses
	These include: CHBE 101, CHBE 250, CHBE 301, CHBE 302, CHBE 333, CHBE 410, CHBE 422, CHBE 424, CHBE 426, CHBE 437, CHBE 440, CHBE 442, CHBE 444, and CHBE 446.View the CHBE course descriptions
	 
9 credits of CHBE Technical Electives
	Students must consult with an advisor on selection of appropriate courses for their particular course of study.View the list of undergraduate technical electives.
 





The Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering undergraduate program is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET. For more information, visit our accreditation page. 
 
 





Related Resources


 

Undergrad Advising Form



Elms



Undergraduate Catalog

 
  Browse Resources




Top








Faculty Directory

Staff Directory

Careers

Media

ClarkNet






Facebook
Twitter
Youtube
Linkedin











Privacy Policy

Accessibility

umd.edu



© 2024 University of Maryland







