







Office of Undergraduate Admissions | Submitting Documents





































Skip to main content













Undergraduate  Admissions




















Visit UMD





Apply Now





Connect





Search







Academics 







All Programs


Colleges & Schools




Limited Enrollment Programs




LEP Admission for Current Students







        Want more information about our majors?
      

        Academics
      






Student Life






        Want to learn more about life as a Terp?
      

        Student Life
      



Housing & Dining


Student Support & Safety


Get Involved on Campus


Find Your Community







How To Apply







Freshman Applicants


Transfer Applicants




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program FAQs






International Applicants




English Language Proficiency
Obtaining a Visa
Financial Certification




Shady Grove Applicants




Shady Grove Terp Transfer Partnership






Application Deadlines


Admission Review Process & Factors


Application FAQs




Freshman Application FAQs
Transfer Application FAQ
Essay Questions
Submitting Documents







        Ready to apply?
      

        How to Apply
      






Tuition & Aid






        Need more information on cost of attendance at UMD,  financing your education and merit scholarships?
      

        Tuition & Aid
      



Cost of Attendance


Freshman Merit Scholarships


Transfer Merit Scholarships




Frederick Douglass Scholarship




Office of Student Financial Aid


















Home
Application FAQs

        Submitting Documents
      






              Submitting Documents
            


Use the information below to determine the best way to submit all of your required application documents.



Applications are considered complete when the online application and all required documents have been submitted. All materials must be submitted electronically or postmarked by the appropriate deadline for consideration. It may take up to 10 business days for recently submitted materials to be listed as received on your checklist and it is your responsibility to confirm receipt of all materials.
Application materials received after the intended deadline will be added to your file, however, we cannot guarantee they will be considered during the review of your application.




    Applications
  


Freshman applicants can submit applications through Common App or StandOut Admissions Network. Transfer applicants must use StandOut Admissions Network.
Undergraduate admission applications must be completed online; UMD does not offer a paper application.





    Standardized Test Scores
  


Official standardized test scores must be sent to us directly (electronically or mailed) by the test administrator.
Ensure test scores are sent to the "University of Maryland, College Park"
UMD’s SAT code is 5814
UMD’s ACT code is 1746You are encouraged to list UMD as a recipient of your scores when you take standardized tests so we will receive them as quickly as possible. We cannot guarantee that scores received after the application deadline will be considered during the review of your admission application.





    Transcripts
  


Official copies of your transcripts must be sent directly by your school/institution using one of the following methods:
High school transcripts can be submitted electronically through Common App, StandOut Admissions Network, eSCRIP-SAFE, Naviance, SCOIR or USM ET.
College transcripts can be submitted electronically via eSCRIP-SAFE, National Clearinghouse, Naviance, Parchment, SCOIR or USM ET.
Transcripts can be mailed to the Office of Undergraduate Admissions using the address listed below. Transcripts cannot be emailed or faxed to our office.
For international applicants, transcripts must be sent in the native language along with a certified English translation. More information regarding this process is available on the International Applicants page.
You can request that transcripts be sent to our office at any point in the application process, even if you have already submitted your online application.





    Letters of Recommendation
  


Letters of recommendation must be submitted to us directly from the recommender. We prefer one of the following electronic submission methods:
Common AppOnce you have added your recommenders to your "Invite and Manage Recommenders" list, you will be able to assign your recommenders to UMD so that our office will receive their letter of recommendation.

StandOut Admissions NetworkOnce you designate who will be completing your recommendations within StandOut Admissions Network, your recommender(s) will receive an email with instructions on how to submit your recommendation electronically through the platform.

Naviance
SCOIRYour recommender(s) can also mail their letters to the address listed below or email them to ApplyMaryland@umd.edu. Recommenders should include the students' full name and date of birth in their message.





    Proof of English Proficiency
  


If English is not your native language—regardless of your citizenship—your official English language proficiency scores must be sent directly to us by one of the following test administrators:
Duolingo English Test (DET)
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL)For UMD to receive your scores, please use the reporting code 5814. Scores can also be mailed to the address listed below. Remember to review our complete list of requirements for English proficiency.





    Supplemental Materials
  


Mid-year reports and/or first quarter grades can be submitted, though they are not considered required application materials unless they are officially requested during the decision notification process.
Although there is not a space to upload supplemental materials such as portfolios, videos, artwork and similar files directly to your application, we encourage you to note your accomplishments in the Activities section (equivalent to your resume). We do not accept these types of files via email.





Application materials can be mailed to:
University of Maryland
Office of Undergraduate Admissions
Mitchell Building
7999 Regents Dr.
College Park, MD 20742-5235, USA


Although application materials can be submitted to the Office of Undergraduate Admissions via postal mail, we encourage and prefer the electronic submission of required documents.













      There is a lot more to learn about UMD, so let's stay in touch!
    






Join Our Mailing List







Connect

















              Undergraduate Admissions
            

                  Mitchell Building
                

                  7999 Regents Dr.
                

                  College Park, MD 20742
                


1-800-422-5867
ApplyMaryland@umd.edu



























Majors & Minors


Student Life


Admissions Requirements


Application Deadlines
Application Deadlines


Tuition & Aid




              Information For:
            

Prospective Students


Parents & Families


Counselors & Advisors
Counselors & Advisors


Admitted Students










Visit UMD






Apply Now






Connect









umd.edu


Privacy Policy


Web Accessibility


        © 2023 UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND
      









