







Office of Undergraduate Admissions | Visitor Center at The Hotel at…





































Skip to main content













Undergraduate  Admissions




















Visit UMD





Apply Now





Connect





Search







Academics 







All Programs


Colleges & Schools




Limited Enrollment Programs




LEP Admission for Current Students







        Want more information about our majors?
      

        Academics
      






Student Life






        Want to learn more about life as a Terp?
      

        Student Life
      



Housing & Dining


Student Support & Safety


Get Involved on Campus


Find Your Community







How To Apply







Freshman Applicants


Transfer Applicants




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program FAQs






International Applicants




English Language Proficiency
Obtaining a Visa
Financial Certification




Shady Grove Applicants




Shady Grove Terp Transfer Partnership






Application Deadlines


Admission Review Process & Factors


Application FAQs




Freshman Application FAQs
Transfer Application FAQ
Essay Questions
Submitting Documents







        Ready to apply?
      

        How to Apply
      






Tuition & Aid






        Need more information on cost of attendance at UMD,  financing your education and merit scholarships?
      

        Tuition & Aid
      



Cost of Attendance


Freshman Merit Scholarships


Transfer Merit Scholarships




Frederick Douglass Scholarship




Office of Student Financial Aid


















Home
Visit

        Visitor Center at The Hotel at UMD
      






              Visitor Center at The Hotel at the University of Maryland
            


Whether you're visiting campus for one of our student-led tours, stopping by to speak with an admission representative or coming to experience UMD through our on-campus programs, The Visitor Center at The Hotel at the University of Maryland (UMD) is a great resource for prospective UMD students and their families.
When planning your visit to campus, remember that all guests of The Visitor Center receive a special rate for accommodations at The Hotel.




















Main entrance to The Hotel at the University of Maryland.











Front desk of the Visitor Center is located off of the main lobby, near The Hotel elevators .











The "Tunnel" is lined with video displays of life at UMD and leads into the auditorium where information sessions are held. 







      Location and Hours of Operation
    

Located in the main lobby of The Hotel, our staff will be available to assist you from 9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Monday through Friday, except when the university is closed for holidays and inclement weather.
The Hotel at The University of Maryland7777 Baltimore AvenueCollege Park, MD 20740


      Parking
    

All guests of the Visitor Center can receive discounted parking in The Hotel at UMD garage, which is attached to The Hotel. Your parking garage ticket must be validated at the Visitor Center desk in The Hotel to receive the discount.
Please include extra time in your schedule to allow for the parking and validation process.













      There is a lot more to learn about UMD, so let's stay in touch!
    






Join Our Mailing List







Connect

















              Undergraduate Admissions
            

                  Mitchell Building
                

                  7999 Regents Dr.
                

                  College Park, MD 20742
                


1-800-422-5867
ApplyMaryland@umd.edu



























Majors & Minors


Student Life


Admissions Requirements


Application Deadlines
Application Deadlines


Tuition & Aid




              Information For:
            

Prospective Students


Parents & Families


Counselors & Advisors
Counselors & Advisors


Admitted Students










Visit UMD






Apply Now






Connect









umd.edu


Privacy Policy


Web Accessibility


        © 2023 UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND
      









