



Nano Minor | Maryland NanoCenter









































FabLab
AIMLab


About

Overview
Director
Staff
Job Opportunities
Logos
Directions
Contact
Email List


Faculty
News

Newsroom
Search
Archives
RSS Feed
Communications & Outreach


Events

Event List
Collaborated Events

MLMR 2023
MLMR 2022
MLMR 2021
MLMR 2020
MLMR 2019
MLMR 2018
MLMR 2017
FQM 2017
MLMR 2016



Nanocolloquium
NanoDay

2016
2014


March for Science


Facilities

Overview
Become A User
Rates
FabLab
AIMLab
NanoCenter Partner Labs

SAC
RRL
ANSLab
TEBL
CSWangLab
EnvEngLab
FML
NanoMass Core




Equipment

Equipment List
Equipment Scheduler


Connections

Overview
Centers & Institutes
Programs

PML Collaboration
Sparks Symposium




Research

Overview
Hot Papers
Publications

Submit a Publication


Acknowledge
Threads






Education

Overview
Intro to Nanotechnology
Nano Minor

Courses



Communicating Science


Giving











Login |
							  Register 











January 27, 2024

UMD Home
FabLab
AIMLab





Home
Education
Nano Minor


Print




Nanoscale Science & Technology Minor





Education Links


Overview

Nano Minor

Nano Minor Courses


Communicating Science




Contacts

Professor Ray Phaneuf, MSE
		    Program Director
		    1106 Chemical & Nuclear Engineering Building
phaneuf@lps.umd.edu
            On Sabbatical
		


N. Adaire Parker, MAEd
            Program Director
            Department of Materials Science and Engineering
            A.James Clark School of Engineering
nparker1@umd.edu




What is the Nano Minor?

			The Maryland nano community has increasingly focused its educational offerings
			at both the undergraduate and graduate level on nanoscale science and engineering
			targets of its various traditional disciplines, leading to an evolution of focus,
			example, and projects in existing courses as well as the generation of new courses.
			

		  To meet the rapidly growing interest of students in nano, and to create the nano
		  workforce of the future, Maryland NanoCenter is in the process of finalizing an
		  innovative undergraduate program, the Interdisciplinary Minor Program in Nanoscale
		  Science and Technology, drawing faculty and courses from multiple departments of
		  the A. James Clark School of Engineering and the
		  College of Computer, Math, and Physical Sciences.
		  The program is open to any
		  student majoring in Engineering, Physics, or Chemistry.
		  

		  This program draws upon the expertise of existing and new nano faculty at Maryland to prepare students for careers in the rapidly growing field of nanoscale science and technology (NS&T).
			




Eligibility & How to Apply
This minor is designed to be accessible and available to any student within the Colleges of Engineering and Computer, Mathematical and Natural Sciences. It is open to all students who have the
			necessary prerequisites to enroll in the courses which constitute the minor.
			
To apply:
			
Read and understand the requirements below for completing the minor.
Download and fill out the Nano Declaration Record Form.
Submit the form to your Departmental Coordinator:
Mechanical Engineering:
Prof. Bao Yang (baoyang@umd.edu)
Electrical and Computer Engineering:
                    Prof. Donald Yeung
yeung@umd.edu

                    or

                    Ms. Kathryn Weiland
                    Director of Undergraduate Studies
kweiland@umd.edu

Chemistry:
                    Prof. Sang Bok Lee
                    Maryland NanoCenter Director
slee@umd.edu

Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering:
                    Prof. Srini Raghavan
sraghava@umd.edu


Fischell Department of Bioengineering:
                    Prof. Ian M. White
ianwhite@umd.edu






Formal Requirements for Completing the Nano Minor

The minor requirement will consist of a total of five courses (at least 15 credits) from those listed on the courses page.
At least two of the courses (6 credits) must be from the list of Nanofabrication/Nanosynthesis and/or Nanocharacterization electives.
At least two of the courses (6 credits) must be from the list of Fundamental Science and/or Nanoscience Electives. At least one of these must be listed as a Nanospecialization/application elective.
Up to two courses (6 credits) may be double counted, i.e. used both toward satisfying the requirements of the major and the NS&T minor.
Three of the courses (9 credits) must be from outside the individual major. Cross listed courses (e.g. ENMA460/PHYS431) which are offered by the major department do not qualify as being outside the major.
At least three of the courses (9 credits) must be at the 400 level or above.
No more than two courses (6 credits) from any one department will be credited toward the NS&T minor.
A grade of "C" or above is required in all courses to be credited toward the NS&T minor.
Students wishing to participate in the NS&T minor must declare participation formally. Declaration of participation in the NS&T minor must follow a meeting with the individual department representative to the NS&T committee who will help the student to develop a program of courses suitable for the minor and a schedule for taking those courses. Examples of model programs for each participating department are given below. Students from outside participating departments will consult with one of the MSE representatives to develop a program of courses and declare participation.
Research experience (XXXX499) courses may be included in the NS&T minor in addition to those listed above, provided that the research is NS&T-related. The course must be within a participating department. Similarly, if the design capstone course (e.g. ENMA490) from a department is judged to be in the area of NS&T, it may be counted as a Specialization Elective toward the minor. Judgment of whether these courses qualify will fall to the departmental NanoProgram Committee member.








Colleges
A. James Clark School of Engineering
The College of Computer, Mathematical, and Natural Sciences

Communicate
Join Email List
Contact Us
Follow us on Twitter

Links
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
RSS

Copyright

University of Maryland
				2004-2024			





