












BS, Kinesiology | University of Maryland | School of Public Health


































  Skip to main content













Menu





About


News


Events


Apply


Give






Academics


Undergraduate Degrees


Master's Degrees


Doctoral Degrees


Dual Degrees


Certificates


Online Programs


Departments & Units


Advising & Resources




Admissions


Why UMD Public Health


Undergraduate Admissions


Graduate Admissions


Non-Degree Seeking Students


Tuition & Aid


Request Information


Visit




Research & Impact


Research Centers


Laboratories, Projects and Programs


Innovation


Policy Reports


Advancing Public Health Research & Practice




People


Faculty & Staff


Alumni Community




Student Opportunities


Career Exploration


Mentorship


Professional Development


Internships


Student Research Opportunities


Student Organizations, Honor Societies and Honor Programs


Global Health Experiences


Peace Corps Prep


Advising & Academic Resources















Home
Academics
Undergraduate Degrees
BS, Kinesiology


BS, Kinesiology













Undergraduate Degrees


BS, Community Health


BS, Family Science


The Current Page is BS, Kinesiology


BS, Public Health Science - College Park


BS, Public Health Science - Shady Grove














					Study the complex role of physical activity in human health and performance across the lifespan
				

The Bachelor of Science in Kinesiology provides a well-rounded, scholarly understanding of human movement and physical activity. The program addresses historical, cultural, developmental and biophysical bases for participation in movement activities for people of all ages. Students gain an understanding of how human movement works, the factors that directly influence movement and the benefits of an active, movement-oriented lifestyle.




          Apply
           


          Request Info
           








Perfect for those interested in
Enhancing sport and human performance
Promoting active lifestyles across populations
Reducing risk of preventable disease associated with physical inactivity
Improving quality of life via rehabilitative practices
Adapting skills for those with different motor abilities
Advocating access to safe and high quality physical activity spaces for all
 




Career Paths
Physical and Occupational Therapy
Doctor, Physician Assistant, and Nursing 
Chiropractic 
Prosthetics
Athletic Training
Sport Management
Coaching
Fitness & Personal Training
Physical Education
Health promotion and wellness
Parks & Recreation programming











Program Overview
The Kinesiology major is one of the 10 largest at UMD, with 774 current undergraduate students. While there are many benefits to joining our program as a freshman, the majority of our students join our major as transfer students from other institutions and from other majors on campus. Our interdisciplinary program examines innovative ways to improve human health and performance by introducing our students to the breadth of Kinesiology. Our students explore human physiology, biomechanics, cognitive motor behavior, and environmental, socio-cultural factors and their affect on human health, motor performance, and sport organizations. 
 
 




1974
UMD created the first Kinesiology degree in the United States








          Learn more about the Department of Kinesiology
          







							Competencies
						





At the completion of the B.S. degree in Kinesiology, students should demonstrate the following competencies: 
Students will interpret, synthesize, and critically analyze research underlying the kinesiological dimensions of physical activity and health.
Students will develop principled reasoning skills necessary to apply and extend Kinesiological knowledge to address problems that are relevant to physical activity and the health of diverse populations.
Students will integrate, interrogate, and communicate the connection between the scholarship of Kinesiology and the goals of Public Health. 
Students will engage in a diversity of physical activities both within and outside their formal curriculum.
Students will integrate their physical activity experiences with kinesiology sub-disciplinary knowledge.









							Program Requirements
						





To earn a B.S. in Kinesiology at the University of Maryland, students need to complete 120 credits.
46 credits of Kinesiology major requirements
18 credits of supporting major requirements
24 credits of General Education courses
32 credits of Elective
Note: credit totals may vary depending on coursework selected by students. For example, some physical activity courses are 1 credit while others are 2 credits. Additionally, General Education credit requirements can be reduced by selecting one course that will satisfy multiple requirements. Elective credit totals may vary based on incoming transfer credit, including AP/IB credit.






          Explore All Kinesiology Degree Requirements on the UMD Catalog
          




          Review Four Year Plans and Benchmarks on the CASA website
          






							Course offerings
						




          Find Courses by Semester on Testudo
          





Sample Kinesiology Course Offerings










Course Name
Course Description




KNES401: Zip Code: Prediction on Physical Activity & Health
An exploration of the relationship and impacts of built and other social environments on health, including physical activity, social equity, gentrification, and many others.
Hide Se


KNES484: Sporting Hollywood
Popular representations of sport within the film media related to wider social discourses on bodies and the politics of various categories of subjectivity (gender, sex, race, class and nationality).


KNES457: Managing Youth Programs: Educational, Fitness and Sport
An examination of the basic functions involved in managing physical education, fitness, and youth sports programs. Focus on leadership skills, organizational management, and techniques for applying learned skills in a variety of organizational settings that serve the nation's youth.


KNES465: Physical Activity and Disease Prevention and Treatment
Critically examines the scientific evidence that supports the use of physical activity to prevent and treat age-related diseases, including cardiovascular disease, diabetes, abnormal lipoprotein-lipid levels, hypertension, obesity, osteoporosis and cancer.


KNES405: Principles & Techniques of Manual Muscle Testing
It is critical for sports medicine and sport performance specialists to understand the location and inter-relationships of the structures of the body that impact human movement. Thus, the primary purpose of this course is to facilitate an in-depth, understanding of the muscles of the body. Specifically, students will learn the origins, insertions, primary and secondary functions, as well as nervous innervations of the major muscle groups of the body. In addition, students will develop palpation skills and learn to grade the function of each muscle through manual muscle testing techniques.


KNES334: Adapted Physical Activity: Empowering People with Disabilities to Lead a Healthy and Active Lifestyle.
Study of the field of adapted physical activity and its impact on the health and wellness of individuals with disabilities. Students will design an adapted physical activity program proposal and develop the skills needed to empower people with disabilities to participate in physical activity and sports programs and to lead active lifestyles.


KNES332: Exercise Testing & Prescription for Fitness Professionals
Practical applications of exercise physiology and psychology to target fitness instruction for the general adult population Includes discussion of certification standards and professional development as well as evaluation of program safety and current trends.


KNES306: Prosthetics for Limb Amputations
Introduction to the science of prosthetics and the artificial devices that are designed, developed and fit to replace the missing body part or parts lost through trauma, disease or congenital conditions.


KNES402: Biomechanics of Sport
Mechanical determinants influencing sport techniques. A quantitative, scientific basis for sport analysis with emphasis on the application to numerous sport activities. Evaluation and quantification of the filmed performance of athletes.


KNES226: The Cybernetic Human
Can the profound and rapid technological advances experienced in the 21st century change what it means to be human or the nature of humanity? Emergent technologies, new materials, increased computer power, engineering innovations, and groundbreaking work in the sciences of cognition and action provide myriad opportunities for repairing and enhancing the human body and brain. Examines the ethical, social, and technological implications of an increasing synergism of technology and the body in sports and the arts, at work or home, rehabilitating the body and the brain, and society at large.











							Undergraduate Program Handbook 
						





Access the Kinesiology general education handbook. 










          View all Kinesiology Student Resources
          

          View Prospective Student Frequently Asked Questions
          

          Review your next steps to become a KNES Major
          






            Contact Us
          
April Khaing
Academic Advisor
akhaing@umd.edu
 



          Request Info
           


















Contact


Visit


Apply


Give


Employment


For Media


SPH Intranet


Web Accessibility







4200 Valley Drive, Suite 2242College Park, Maryland 20742-2611



p:
phone:
301-405-2438


f:
fax:
301-405-8397






Twitter





Facebook





Instagram





Youtube













Information for Visitors


FAQ's


Contact Us


Careers


Office of Civil Rights & Sexual Misconduct


UMD Police Department


Accessibility


Policies & Procedures


Public Records Request


© 2024 University of Maryland









