 







Department of Mathematics - Information for Math Minors







































 







 








 

 
UMD_CMNS_Math_S1_CMYK











Search ...  








 

 






 




Home






About Us

 






Back




Contact Us






Directions






News






Newsletter






Sustainability






Historical Collections






Brin Postdoctoral Program






Novikov Postdoctoral Program






Positions Available






Math Department Climate Committee












People

 






Back




All






Faculty






Staff






Lecturers






Emeritus






Graduate Students






Postdocs






Affiliate Faculty












Undergraduate

 






Back




Courses






Information for Math Majors






Information for Math Minors






Credit, Placement, and Advising






Resources and Tutoring






Directed Reading Program






Research, Clubs, and Awards






Summer REU






Our Alumni






Fun with Math






Staff












Graduate

 






Back




Math Program






Statistics Program






AMSC






Course Information






Prospective Students






Current Students






Career & Professional Development






Career Announcements (Internal)






Staff












Research

 






Back




This Week's Talks






Next Week's Talks






Colloquium






Seminars






Conferences






Faculty Research Interests






Resources






Distinguished Lecture Series






Brin Mathematics Research Center












Outreach

 






Back




High School






Girls Talk Math






Women In Math






Summer REU












Internal

 






Back




Computing Help






Booked Room Scheduler






Directed Reading Program






Business Office






Chairman's Office






Teaching Resources






Remote Teaching

















 









			Information for Math Minors		


IMPORTANT NOTE: The course requirements listed below are for informational purposes only.  Math minors should refer to their degree audits (available via Testudo) to check their progress in the minor. PROGRAM GOALS:  The goal of the Minor in Mathematics is to provide the student with significant mathematical skills and a perspective on the discipline. LEARNING OUTCOMES ASSESSMENT PLAN:   Click  here. for a PDF file of our Assessment Plan for the Minor in Mathematics. Note: University policy says that if you wish to have a Minor, then you need to declare that intention NO LATER THAN A YEAR BEFORE YOU INTEND TO GRADUATE.  You can only choose one of math minor, statistics minor, or actuarial minor as no courses may overlap between any two minors. Minor in Mathematics  The Department of Mathematics offers a Minor in Mathematics for students majoring in other disciplines.  The goal of the Minor in Mathematics is to provide the student with significant mathematical skills and a perspective on the discipline. The requirements for the Minor in Mathematics include at least 22 credits beyond first-year calculus (19 credits if MATH310 is exempted), and include the following: I.  a. MATH 241; and either MATH 240 or MATH 461 (Item I can be achieved by MATH 340-341.)     b. MATH 310, unless otherwise exempted.  To qualify for the exemption, one must have a B- or better in CMSC250; or A- or better and MATH240 and MATH241; or B- or better in MATH340 and MATH341.The remaining credits for the Minor in Mathematics must be at the 400-level in mathematics, and include:  II.   At least one of the following core theoretical courses:  MATH 403*, 405*, 410*  III.  At least one of the following algebra courses:  MATH 401, 402, 403*, 405*, 406  IV.   At leat one of the following analysis courses:  MATH 410*, 416, 462, 463, 464  V.    At least one of the following probability courses:  STAT 400 or STAT 410* (note that STAT400 and ENEE324 are duplicate credits and we do not accept ENEE324).  If additional credits are needed in order to fulfill the 22-credit minimum, any 400-level MATH-STAT-AMSC courses except MATH 400, MATH 461, MATH 477-478, 480-484, 489, 498, and STAT 464 are acceptable. Other issues related to the Minor in Mathematics: (a)  The Minor in Mathematics is NOT open to Mathematics majors. (b)  The student will need to achieve at least a C- (1.7) in each minor course and an overall minor GPA of 2.0. (c) A student may use a maximum of 2 courses to satisfy the requirements of both a major and the Minor in Mathematics.  However, in some cases departments requiring majors to have supporting courses may wish to allow students to substitute an appropriate minor for the supporting course requirement. Consult your major department or college for its policy on this issue with regard to the mathematics minor. (d)  No more than 1 of the 400-level courses for the Minor in Mathematics may be taken at an institution other than the University of Maryland, College Park.   In addition, no more than two transferred courses may be applied to the Mathematics Minor. (e) Courses with an asterisk (*) are rigorous theoretical courses.  Students may not want to take two fo these courses in the same semester. The departmental advisor for this program is Ida Chan, Undergraduate Mathematics Advisor, . To apply for the math minor, please complete this application form and email it to . Minor in Statistics  The Department of Mathematics offers a Minor in Statistics for students whose majors are not mathematics.  The goal of the Minor in Statistics is to provide the student with a substantial number of courses that are statistical in nature and involve a substantial amount of mathematics. The requirements entail 16 credits, from I - IV: I. Math 241, Calculus III (Multivariable Calculus) (4) Some courses below may require MATH240 or MATH461 as a prerequisite. II  One of the three pairs of 3-credit courses: Stat 400 and Stat 401 (note that STAT400 and ENEE324 are duplicate credits) Stat 410* and Stat 420* Stat 410* and Stat 401 III.  Stat 430  IV.  One of the courses in (a) - (d): (a) A third course in (II) not already taken to satisfy (II) (b) Stat 440 (c) Stat470 (d) Econ422(e) Other courses as deemed appropriate.  Currently approved courses can be viewed using Testudo's Degree Audit or by looking here. Other issues related to the Minor in Statistics: (a)  The Minor in Statistics is NOT open to Mathematics Majors. (b)  The student will need to achieve at least a C- (1.7) in each minor course and an overall minor GPA of 2.0. (c) A student may use a maximum of 2 courses to satisfy the requirements of both a major and the Minor in Statistics. However, in some cases departments requiring majors to have supporting courses may wish to allow students to substitute an appropriate minor for the supporting course requirement. Consult your major department or college for its policy on this issue with regard to the statistics minor. (d)  No more than one 400-level course for the Minor in Statistics may be taken at an institution other than the University of Maryland, College Park.  In addition, no more than two transferred courses may be applied to the Statistics Minor. (e) Courses with an asterisk (*) are rigorous theoretical courses.  Students may not want to take two fo these courses in the same semester. The departmental advisor for this program is Ida Chan, Undergraduate Mathematics Advisor, . To apply for the statistics minor, please complete this application form and email it to . Minor in Actuarial Mathematics The Department of Mathematics offers a Minor in Actuarial Mathematics for students whose majors are not mathematics.  The goal of the Minor in Actuarial Mathematics is to provide the student with an introduction to statistics in general and actuarial mathematics in particular.  This minor is closely related to the Minor in Statistics, but its focus is on actuarial mathematics. The requirements entail 16 credits:  I. Math 241  II. One of the three pairs of 3-credit courses:  Stat 400 and Stat 401 (note that STAT400 and ENEE324 are duplicate credits) Stat 410* and Stat 420* Stat 410* and Stat 401  III. Also:  Math 461 (Math 240, with 4 credits, may be substituted for Math 461) IV. Stat 470  V. Recommended:  Math 424 and/or Stat 430  Other issues related to coursework: (a)  The Minor in Actuarial Mathematics is NOT open to Mathematics Majors. (b)  The student will need to achieve at least a C- (1.7) in each minor course and an overall minor GPA of 2.0. (c) A student may use a maximum of 2 courses to satisfy the requirements of both a major and a Minor in Actuarial Mathematics. However, in some cases departments requiring majors to have supporting courses may wish to allow students to substitute an appropriate minor for the supporting course requirement. Consult your major department or college for its policy on this issue with regard to the actuarial minor. (d)  No more than one 400-level course for the Minor in Actuarial Mathematics may be taken at an institution other than the University of Maryland, College Park.  In addition, no more than 2 transferred courses may be applied the Actuarial Minor. (e) Courses with an asterisk (*) are rigorous theoretical courses.  Students may not want to take two fo these courses in the same semester. The departmental advisor for this program is Ida Chan, Undergraudate Mathematics Advisor, .  To apply for the statistics minor, please complete this application form and email it to .  Also, click  here for more information on actuarial opportunities. 













CoursesInformation for Math MajorsInformation for Math MinorsCredit, Placement, and AdvisingResources and TutoringDirected Reading ProgramResearch, Clubs, and AwardsSummer REUOur AlumniFun with MathStaff










 

 
UMD_CMNS_Math_S1_CMYK_W




            4176 Campus Drive - William E. Kirwan Hall
College Park, MD 20742-4015
P: 301.405.5047 | F: 301.314.0827
Give to the Math Department



 
UMD_CMNS_Math_P1_CMYK_W






            ©
        2024
    Department of Mathematics - University of Maryland
            


 


            To Top                    












