


The University of Maryland | A Preeminent Public Research University





























 
Skip to main content



Toggle navigation





 Search
 Inside UMD
 News & Events
 Admissions
 Support UMD


YouTube
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram



A Preeminent Public Research University





 

Anticipating Excellence


President Pines Welcomes Terps Back to Campus With a Message of Hope for the New Semester


Read More




 

Standing the Testudo of Time


From Turtlenappings to TikTok Shenanigans, How an Unassuming Reptile Evolved to Represent Terp Spirit


Read More




 

Terp Staff Hailed for Outstanding Service


Employees Across Campus Receive New Terrapin Innovation and MVP Impact Awards


Read More












Art + Technology + Social Justice
The Arts for All initiative partners the arts with the sciences, technology and other disciplines to develop new and experiential offerings that nurture different ways of thinking to spark dialogue, understanding, problem solving and action.

More about Arts for All











Administration
Alumni Association
Diversity & Inclusion
Emergency Management
Fearlessly Forward - The UMD Strategic Plan
HEOA/Consumer Information (FAQs)
History & Mission
Maryland Merchandise
MPowering the State 
Rankings and Fast Facts 
Sustainability
Virtual Tour 
Visitors, Parents and Families




About
The University of Maryland, College Park is the state's flagship university and one of the nation's preeminent public research universities. A global leader in research, entrepreneurship and innovation, the university is home to more than 40,700 students, 14,000 faculty and staff, and nearly 400,000 alumni all dedicated to the pursuit of Fearless Ideas. Located just outside Washington, D.C., we discover and share new knowledge every day through our renowned research enterprise and programs in academics, the arts and athletics. And we are committed to social entrepreneurship as the nation’s first “Do Good” campus.




DO GOOD 
Introducing The Nation's First Do Good Campus Transforming Idealism into Impact 




UMD Rankings




#19
Top public national university
Source: 2022-23 U.S. News & World Report






#1
Best colleges for LGBTQ+ students
Source: 2023 Campus Pride Index






#13
Among public universities
Source: 2023 Forbes' list of America’s Top Colleges






#4
Undergraduate program for entrepreneurship
Source: The Princeton Review / Entrepreneurship magazine 





Rankings and Fast Facts







Academic Calendar
Teaching & Learning Transformation Center
College Park Scholars
Maryland Global
Honors College
Libraries
Majors and Minors
Extended Studies
Provost
Registrar
Special Academic Programs
Testudo (Student Portal)
Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate School




Academics
Spanning 12 schools and colleges, Maryland offers more than 300 degree-granting programs, many of them ranked among the best in the country. Our faculty includes two Nobel laureates, three Pulitzer Prize winners, 58 members of the national academies and scores of Fulbright scholars. And our students, who include the highest achievers in the state and nation, enjoy experiences unique to our location just outside the nation’s capital, including internships, research, and leadership and service opportunities.



Schools and Colleges

Agriculture and Natural Resources
Architecture, Planning and Preservation
Arts and Humanities
Behavioral and Social Sciences
Business (Robert H. Smith) 
Computer, Mathematical, and Natural Sciences
Education
Engineering (A. James Clark) 
Graduate School
Journalism (Philip Merrill)
Information Studies
Public Health
Public Policy
Undergraduate Studies













/UNIVofMARYLAND
Facebook account for University of Maryland






@UofMaryland
Youtube Channel for University of Maryland






@UofMARYLAND
Twitter Profile for University of Maryland






@UNIVofMARYLAND
Instagram Profile for University of Maryland






University of Maryland
LinkedIn page for University of Maryland






@UNIVofMARYLAND
Threads Profile for University of Maryland













Academy for Innovation and Entrepreneurship
Colleges and Schools
Division of Research
FIRE: The First-Year Innovation & Research Experience
Innovation Gateway




Research and Innovation
The University of Maryland is one of the world’s premier research institutions. With our strategic location and scores of partnerships with government and businesses, UMD conducts groundbreaking research on some of the biggest challenges facing our global community, including cybersecurity and terrorism, bioengineering, public health equity, food safety and climate change. We strive to discover new knowledge and put it to work through innovation and entrepreneurship, advancing economic development and transforming lives. 
The newly launched Innovation Gateway will guide you to the resources, programs, partners, and spaces you need to activate and scale your fearless ideas into innovations that launch new ventures, catalyze growth, and advance economic development.








To improve the lives of every person on Earth, we will reimagine teaching and learning; accelerate solutions to the grand challenges of our time through creativity and discovery; and forge a diverse and inclusive community where our differences are celebrated and equity is relentlessly pursued. Together, we will dedicate ourselves to advancing the public good because our individual well-being is enduringly bound to our collective well-being.
Read the Strategic Plan











College of Arts and Humanities
School of Music
School of Theatre, Dance, and Performance Studies
The Clarice Smith Performing Arts Center
Michelle Smith Performing Arts Library
School of Architecture, Planning & Preservation
David C. Driskell Center
DeVos Institute of Arts Management
Galleries
The Art & Learning Center at Stamp




Arts
At the University of Maryland, the arts, the humanities and the sciences intersect to address important societal issues and shed new light on the human experience. Our vibrant campus arts community collaborates with local and national cultural organizations such as the Phillips Collection, Kennedy Center and Folger Shakespeare Library. Student and faculty artists, designers, historians, writers and performers are exploring new media, presenting new perspectives, investigating new techniques and engaging new audiences.



Events






 

WE ARE TerrapinSTRONG.
If you want to join a community striving for equity, inclusion and social justice, you belong here.
- Darryll J. Pines, President
More about TerrapinSTRONG











Intercollegiate Athletics
University of Maryland Golf Course
University Recreation and Wellness




Athletics
Home of the Terrapins, the University of Maryland has one of the nation’s most recognizable and successful athletics programs. More than 550 student-athletes compete each year in 20 intercollegiate sports—12 for women and eight for men. Since 2005 alone, Maryland has won 19 national championships, including NCAA titles in women’s basketball, men’s soccer, men's lacrosse, women’s lacrosse, and field hockey. Since joining the Big Ten Conference in 2014, UMD has won a combined 32 regular season and tournament championships. Fear the Turtle!







 

The University of Maryland is proud to be the nation's first Do Good Campus.
Remember that college experience or course that changed you? The one that got you excited about learning and what you wanted to do with your life? Imagine a campus where most of your college experiences were that inspiring and enabled you to Do Good.
Learn more about Do Good











Book Center
Career Center
Counseling Center
Dining Services
Fraternity and Sorority Life
Health Center
Memorial Chapel
Off-Campus Housing
Resident Life 
Stamp Student Union
Student Affairs
Student Clubs
Transportation Services
University Recreation and Wellness




Student Life
The Terp experience extends beyond classrooms, labs and studios. It encompasses residence halls and dining halls, clubs and sports, fraternities and sororities, campus events and performances, and countless off-campus destinations. Maryland touts 800-plus student organizations, dozens of prestigious living and learning communities, and countless other ways to get involved. Students here can create a unique identity and grow as individuals, even as they’re part of a close-knit and diverse community. 








Support the Clark Challenge for the Maryland Promise Scholarship and double your impact through the Clark Challenge











Calendar
Directories
Map




On Campus 



 

Winter Session


Keep Learning! Earn up to four credits in just three weeks. Courses offered on campus or anywhere online. Meet your goals with University of Maryland’s Winter Session, January 2-22, 2024. Learn more at winter.umd.edu.


Read More














Campus Alerts
Campus Calendar
Resources for News Media
Terp Magazine
UMD Right Now
Inclement Weather FAQs




News & Events
News
Latest news at Maryland Today
For media releases visit UMD Right Now



Events
Explore events on the Campus Calendar








Admissions



Terps are bold, smart, curious and proud. We do good, in our communities and out in the world. We are fearless. And we are always looking to expand our ranks. Interested in becoming a University of Maryland student? This is where to start.
 



Undergraduate Admissions

Requirements
Frequently Asked Questions
100+ Undergraduate Majors


Graduate Admissions

Admissions Process
Graduate Programs



Financial Aid 
Terrapin Commitment
Visit
Contact Us 









Search


Search keyword or phrase





 



	Campus Resources

Accessibility
Campus Calendar
Campus Map
Directories
Human Resources
Policies and Procedures



	Student Resources

Academic Calendar
Registrar
Testudo (Student Portal)



	Technical Support

Change Password
Division of IT
Get IT Support









Giving to Maryland

	Give to Maryland
Giving back is a fearless Terp tradition, and there are many ways you can not only keep it alive, but also make an instant impact. 

 
Give Now




Support the Clark Challenge for the Maryland Promise Scholarship and double your impact through the Clark Challenge.
 















University of Maryland on YouTube


University of Maryland on Facebook


University of Maryland on Twitter


University of Maryland on Instagram



The Flagship Institution of the State of Maryland
		College Park, MD 20742, USA · 301.405.1000

 







Information for Visitors, Parents and Families
FAQs (HEOA/Consumer Information)
Contact Us
Careers
Office of Civil Rights & Sexual Misconduct
UMD Police Department
Web Accessibility
Policies and Procedures
Public Records Request
Privacy Notice
Accessibility at UMD
Report Fraud and Waste
 

MPowering the State









×

















