







Office of Undergraduate Admissions | Financial Certification





































Skip to main content













Undergraduate  Admissions




















Visit UMD





Apply Now





Connect





Search







Academics 







All Programs


Colleges & Schools




Limited Enrollment Programs




LEP Admission for Current Students







        Want more information about our majors?
      

        Academics
      






Student Life






        Want to learn more about life as a Terp?
      

        Student Life
      



Housing & Dining


Student Support & Safety


Get Involved on Campus


Find Your Community







How To Apply







Freshman Applicants


Transfer Applicants




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program FAQs






International Applicants




English Language Proficiency
Obtaining a Visa
Financial Certification




Shady Grove Applicants




Shady Grove Terp Transfer Partnership






Application Deadlines


Admission Review Process & Factors


Application FAQs




Freshman Application FAQs
Transfer Application FAQ
Essay Questions
Submitting Documents







        Ready to apply?
      

        How to Apply
      






Tuition & Aid






        Need more information on cost of attendance at UMD,  financing your education and merit scholarships?
      

        Tuition & Aid
      



Cost of Attendance


Freshman Merit Scholarships


Transfer Merit Scholarships




Frederick Douglass Scholarship




Office of Student Financial Aid


















Home
International Applicants

        Financial Certification
      






              Financial Certification
            


As an international applicant, you are required to provide proof that you have sufficient funds to cover your expenses while attending the University of Maryland (UMD).


If you are admitted to UMD and hold or intend to seek an F-1 Student or J-1 Exchange Visitor visa, you must provide proof of available financial resources to cover one year’s worth of expenses (tuition, fees, books, insurance and living expenses). You are only required to provide this documentation after you are offered admission to UMD and have confirmed your enrollment. 
For information on what documents to submit, please review the International Student & Scholar Services Acceptable Funding page. There you will also find estimated cost of attendance information. Regarding tuition, fees and financing your education at UMD, please keep in mind the following:
Tuition and fees for each semester, as well as other university charges, books and supplies must be paid in full before the first day of classes.
Medical insurance is required for all international students attending UMD.
As a publicly funded institution, UMD is unable to provide financial assistance to international students. You can find other options for financing your education on the Office of Student Financial Aid website














      There is a lot more to learn about UMD, so let's stay in touch!
    






Join Our Mailing List







Connect

















              Undergraduate Admissions
            

                  Mitchell Building
                

                  7999 Regents Dr.
                

                  College Park, MD 20742
                


1-800-422-5867
ApplyMaryland@umd.edu



























Majors & Minors


Student Life


Admissions Requirements


Application Deadlines
Application Deadlines


Tuition & Aid




              Information For:
            

Prospective Students


Parents & Families


Counselors & Advisors
Counselors & Advisors


Admitted Students










Visit UMD






Apply Now






Connect









umd.edu


Privacy Policy


Web Accessibility


        © 2023 UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND
      









