







Office of Undergraduate Admissions | How to Apply





































Skip to main content










Undergraduate  Admissions




















Visit UMD





Apply Now





Connect





Search







Academics 







All Programs


Colleges & Schools




Limited Enrollment Programs




LEP Admission for Current Students







        Want more information about our majors?
      

        Academics
      






Student Life






        Want to learn more about life as a Terp?
      

        Student Life
      



Housing & Dining


Student Support & Safety


Get Involved on Campus


Find Your Community







How To Apply







Freshman Applicants


Transfer Applicants




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program FAQs






International Applicants




English Language Proficiency
Obtaining a Visa
Financial Certification




Shady Grove Applicants




Shady Grove Terp Transfer Partnership






Application Deadlines


Admission Review Process & Factors


Application FAQs




Freshman Application FAQs
Transfer Application FAQ
Essay Questions
Submitting Documents







        Ready to apply?
      

        How to Apply
      






Tuition & Aid






        Need more information on cost of attendance at UMD,  financing your education and merit scholarships?
      

        Tuition & Aid
      



Cost of Attendance


Freshman Merit Scholarships


Transfer Merit Scholarships




Frederick Douglass Scholarship




Office of Student Financial Aid



























            How to Apply
          

We're so glad you're considering applying to the University of Maryland (UMD)! Below are quick links to our application platforms.




Common App
Apply through the Common App







Standout Admissions Network
Apply through the Standout Admissions Network













Home

        How to Apply
      








      GET TO KNOW OUR PROCESS
    





Before you apply, take some time to get familiar with our application review process. Determine what type of applicant you are so you can ensure you meet the requirements and submit all the necessary documents.














      Freshman Applicants
    

High school students and students with fewer than 12 semester hours or 18 quarter hours of university-level credit beyond secondary school should apply as freshman applicants.


Freshman Requirements & Application Checklists
Freshman Requirements & Application Checklists

















      Transfer Applicants
    

Transfer students play a pivotal role on campus, where they bring unique perspectives from their college studies as well as a diversity of backgrounds, geographic origins and personal experiences. You're considered a transfer applicant if you've graduated high school and have completed at least 12 semester hours or 18 quarter hours after high school graduation at a regionally accredited college or university.


Transfer Requirements & Application Checklists
Transfer Requirements & Application Checklists

















      International Applicants
    

University of Maryland is committed to enrolling a diverse student body from around the globe. Apply as an international student if you are a non-U.S. citizen or if you are a non-permanent U.S. resident.
If English is not your native language, regardless of citizenship, or you have non-U.S. academic records, you will need to refer to the international applicant page for instructions on submitting additional information.


International Requirements & Application Checklist
International Requirements & Application Checklist

















      Shady Grove
    

If you want to earn your degree from the University of Maryland, but are looking for a small, close-knit community, then consider becoming a Terp at our Shady Grove location!


Shady Grove Requirements & Application Checklist
Shady Grove Requirements & Application Checklist











          When to Apply
        





                Answer questions below to check your deadlines:
              

Student Type


                    I'm a..
                  

                    I'm a Freshman
                  

                    I'm a Transfer
                  

                    I'm a Shady Grove Student
                  



US or International


                    I'm a...
                  

                    US Student
                  

                    International Student
                  









Fall
Spring



              Back
            




        Not sure? See All Application Deadlines
      














      Application Resources
    

Take advantage of the following resources to learn more about UMD's admission review process and find answers to frequently asked questions about the application, required materials and more.












      Admission Review Process & Factors
    

Our admission review process is thorough, individualized and holistic. We review all application components and consider more than 24 factors.


Explore the Process
Click to explore the Admission Review Process






      Application FAQs
    

We know applying to college is a lot of work, so we'll do everything we can to make it as stress-free as possible. Use our FAQs for the quickest answers to many of the common questions we receive.


Read FAQs
Click to read Application FAQs






      Submitting Documents
    

Some application materials you can submit yourself, while others need to come directly from testing agencies and counselors or teachers. Review this page to know the best way to submit your documents.


Learn about Submitting Documents
Learn how to submit application materials
























        VISIT UMD
      

Your student(s) can only learn so much about a school from a website. We encourage them to see campus for themselves! Throughout the year we offer a variety of information sessions and tours.


Explore Our Calendar
Review our calendar of upcoming tours and information sessions.




        GET IN TOUCH
      

If you can't seem to find answers to your questions, feel free to reach out to the admission representative for your area! We're happy to help.


Meet Our Admission Reps
Get connected to the admission representative for your area.

















      There is a lot more to learn about UMD, so let's stay in touch!
    






Join Our Mailing List







Connect

















              Undergraduate Admissions
            

                  Mitchell Building
                

                  7999 Regents Dr.
                

                  College Park, MD 20742
                


1-800-422-5867
ApplyMaryland@umd.edu



























Majors & Minors


Student Life


Admissions Requirements


Application Deadlines
Application Deadlines


Tuition & Aid




              Information For:
            

Prospective Students


Parents & Families


Counselors & Advisors
Counselors & Advisors


Admitted Students










Visit UMD






Apply Now






Connect









umd.edu


Privacy Policy


Web Accessibility


        © 2023 UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND
      









