







Office of Undergraduate Admissions | UMD's Commitment to Diversity





































Skip to main content













Undergraduate  Admissions




















Visit UMD





Apply Now





Connect





Search







Academics 







All Programs


Colleges & Schools




Limited Enrollment Programs




LEP Admission for Current Students







        Want more information about our majors?
      

        Academics
      






Student Life






        Want to learn more about life as a Terp?
      

        Student Life
      



Housing & Dining


Student Support & Safety


Get Involved on Campus


Find Your Community







How To Apply







Freshman Applicants


Transfer Applicants




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program FAQs






International Applicants




English Language Proficiency
Obtaining a Visa
Financial Certification




Shady Grove Applicants




Shady Grove Terp Transfer Partnership






Application Deadlines


Admission Review Process & Factors


Application FAQs




Freshman Application FAQs
Transfer Application FAQ
Essay Questions
Submitting Documents







        Ready to apply?
      

        How to Apply
      






Tuition & Aid






        Need more information on cost of attendance at UMD,  financing your education and merit scholarships?
      

        Tuition & Aid
      



Cost of Attendance


Freshman Merit Scholarships


Transfer Merit Scholarships




Frederick Douglass Scholarship




Office of Student Financial Aid


















Home

        UMD's Commitment to Diversity
      






              UMD's Commitment to Diversity
            


      UMD'S COMMITMENT TO DIVERSITY
    

The University of Maryland (UMD) remains, since our founding, an institution of change and progress, and a proud land-grant flagship campus dedicated to the public good. Our guiding principles are helping us to empower the next generation of leaders, artists, writers, educators, scientists and global citizens to develop creative solutions to the grand challenges of our times.
We are strongest when embracing voices, ideas, perspectives, identities and experiences across our campus. Together, we work toward justice. Together we are committed to diversity, equity and inclusion.
In support of the university’s overarching mission, the Office of Undergraduate Admissions  strives to recruit, admit, enroll and support talented students from diverse backgrounds. The Office of Undergraduate Admissions, the Office of Student Financial Aid and the Office of the Registrar come together as the Department of Enrollment Management to promote the success of these students who then benefit from and contribute to the intellectual, social and cultural life of the university, their communities and the world. We are student-centered and data-supported professionals committed to designing, implementing and providing the necessary services from pre-enrollment to graduation. We focus on providing pathways to an accessible and affordable education for the most promising students from Maryland, across the United States and around the globe.



      OUR RESPONSE TO RECENT EVENTS
    

On June 29, 2023 the U.S. Supreme Court decided that the use of race as a factor in the college application review process violates the equal protection clause of the 14th Amendment.
Darryll J. Pines, president of the University of Maryland released a statement about the ruling and the Office of Undergraduate Admissions wishes to reiterate: Our commitment to diversity remains a top priority for the University of Maryland.





“At a time when students who have historically faced the greatest barriers to accessing higher education are being told that the admission process may become more challenging than ever, we have a clear, loud and true message: we will remain a national leader by encouraging and supporting students of all backgrounds as they apply, enroll and graduate from the University of Maryland. The educational value of campus diversity is one we will not sacrifice.”


The Office of Undergraduate Admissions will, of course, ensure that we adhere strictly to the Supreme Court’s decision. In accordance with the ruling, we will no longer consider race and ethnicity as part of our application review factors. 
Our admission committee approaches each student’s application with an individualized, rigorous and holistic review, as we assess academic merit, achievements and potential in the context of the opportunities and challenges the student faced. Unfortunately, we can’t glean all of this information from just high school transcripts and test scores. We try to get to know students better through the information provided in their letters of recommendation, essays, and responses to our short answer questions. This year, we’ve added a new short answer question which reads:Because we know that diversity benefits the educational experience of all students, the University of Maryland values diversity in all of its many forms. This includes (but is not limited to) racial, socio-economic, gender, geographical and sexual orientation. We are interested in hearing about your own life experiences. In a few sentences, will you please describe how you have learned, grown, been inspired or developed skills through one or more components of diversity.
With this question, we are hoping to learn more about how diversity has shaped each student and its impact on how they’ve learned and grown. The key component we are searching for is authenticity. We want to emphasize that we are not asking students to bare any information they are uncomfortable sharing. We are trying to find out how students’ curiosity, interests, experiences and even challenges may have shaped what they will contribute to UMD both inside and outside the classroom.



      ONGOING EFFORTS
    

Throughout the year, the Office of Undergraduate Admissions hosts events to help prospective and admitted students, their families and counselors/advisors navigate the college application and admission processes. A number of these events are designed to celebrate the diversity of our campus and increase access for students who might not otherwise have the resources and opportunities to apply to college. Examples include:




    College Access Conference
  


College Access Conference provides first-generation and students of color in 10th and 11th grade, and their families, with a variety of presentations that provide guidance on the college search and application process.





    Maryland Ascent Program
  


Maryland Ascent Program is designed to help first-generation high school seniors from Prince George's County, Baltimore City, and select Baltimore County public schools navigate the complex world of college admission. Selected students and their families will participate in a series of workshops on the application process, essay and resume writing, and financial aid, in addition to receiving individualized assistance from admission representatives.





    Terrapin STARS
  


Terrapin STARS, is a program designed to engage, support and build pathways for students from small-town and rural America. As a STARS College Network member, the University of Maryland hosts a variety of events to reach students in rural communities, provide application assistance as well as opportunities to visit campus and explore higher education opportunities that align with their passion and interests.





    EDGE
  


EDGE is an overnight stay program aimed at engaging newly admitted Black/African American and Latinx students. Students will have a chance to experience diversity, growth and excellence at the University of Maryland, shadow the experiences of current students and connect with alumni, faculty and staff.













        Resources
      




                Admission Review Process & Factors
              

Our office reviews all application components and considers more than 24 factors in our individualized and holistic application review process. We encourage you to learn more about all that goes into reviewing undergraduate applications.


Learn more
Learn more about Admission Review Factors & Process













                Find Your Community
              

With 30,000+ undergraduate students, 800+ student organizations and clubs, and numerous departments dedicated to unique groups across campus, it’s easy to find your people here at the University of Maryland.


Learn more
Explore how you can find your community at UMD




















      There is a lot more to learn about UMD, so let's stay in touch!
    






Join Our Mailing List







Connect

















              Undergraduate Admissions
            

                  Mitchell Building
                

                  7999 Regents Dr.
                

                  College Park, MD 20742
                


1-800-422-5867
ApplyMaryland@umd.edu



























Majors & Minors


Student Life


Admissions Requirements


Application Deadlines
Application Deadlines


Tuition & Aid




              Information For:
            

Prospective Students


Parents & Families


Counselors & Advisors
Counselors & Advisors


Admitted Students










Visit UMD






Apply Now






Connect









umd.edu


Privacy Policy


Web Accessibility


        © 2023 UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND
      









