












Architecture Degrees | School of Architecture, Planning & Preservation


















      Skip to main content
    






















Search




Menu




Programs



Architecture




Urban Studies and Planning




Historic Preservation




Real Estate Development




PhD




Interdisciplinary Dual Degrees







Academics



Admissions




Degrees




Courses




Awards & Competitions




Education Abroad




Summer Programs




Accreditation




Partnership for Action Learning in Sustainability (PALS)







Research, Projects & Creative Practice



Research




Centers




Projects




Exhibitions




Special Projects




Publications







About



History




Mission | Vision | Values




Justice, Equity, Diversity and Inclusion (JEDI)




Dean's Welcome




Location




Contact Us




FAQ







People



Faculty




Staff




Lecturers




Alumni




Emeriti




In Memoriam







Resources



Calendar




Galleries




Libraries




Student Resources




School Resources




Career Services




Alumni Resources




Prospective Students











Discover Your Education


Apply


Visit


Giving


News & Events


Calendar






Close Search


Search


Search










Maryland's built environment school



In This Section


Academics


Admissions


Degrees


Courses


Awards & Competitions


Education Abroad


High School Summer Program


NAAB Accreditation


Global Advisory Board


Mentorship Program


Partnership for Action Learning in Sustainability (PALS)





























Breadcrumb


Home


Programs


Architecture


Architecture Academics


                  Architecture Degrees
              




Architecture Degrees



 


Master of Architecture
The Master of Architecture (M. ARCH) degree is the NAAB-accredited professional degree. The accredited professional degree is the first step for individuals interested in pursuing a path toward licensure as a practicing architect in North America.
Bachelor of Arts in Architecture
The Bachelor of Arts in Architecture degree track is an intensive liberal arts degree track that empowers students to explore a variety of interests and apply their knowledge to diverse career opportunities, including graduate study in architecture.
Bachelor of Science in Architecture
The Bachelor of Science in Architecture is an accelerated four-year pre-professional program designed to dovetail with the Master of Architecture, our NAAB-accredited professional degree (and with similar Master of Architecture degrees offered at other institutions).
Interdisciplinary Dual Degrees
The School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation offers more than a dozen dual-degree options for students who wish to explore beyond a singular discipline, capitalizing on the depth and breadth of offerings of the University of Maryland.
History and Theory of Architecture Minor
A minor in history and theory of architecture will provide students who have an interest in architectural history the opportunity to develop an understanding and appreciation of architecture as a basic component of human society. Students will gain an insight of diverse architectural cultures as well as apply diverse research methods in order to understand architectural phenomena in a broad context. The History and Theory of Architecture minor is ideal for students in Architecture and Art History. Students in other majors will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
Creative Placemaking Minor
Students in this interdisciplinary creative placemaking minor will engage in place-based art and design projects in partnership with local organizations, knowledge keepers, and artists in select areas of the Purple Line Corridor that are at the greatest risk of displacement. This minor currently offers two tracks: one focusing on architecture and spatial practice and the other on the visual arts.
Construction Project Management Minor
A minor in construction project management offers a working knowledge of construction management concepts, tools, and techniques for effective project management and team collaboration. The minor is administered by the A. James Clark School of Engineering, exclusively for students of MAPP or the Clark School.
Certificate in Urban Design
The Certificate in Urban Design offers to graduate students enrolled in the Master of Architecture the opportunity to be graduated with added expertise and enhanced credentials in urban design.
 
Architecture thesis critique in action. 
























University of MarylandSchool of Architecture, Planning and Preservation
3835 Campus Drive  /  College Park, MD 20742
301.405.8000  / archinfo@umd.edu





CTA menu




Discover


Apply


Giving











































Footer menu




Visit


Web Accessibility


Privacy Policy


UMD.edu


©2020





















