







Office of Undergraduate Admissions | Maryland Transfer Advantage…





































Skip to main content













Undergraduate  Admissions




















Visit UMD





Apply Now





Connect





Search







Academics 







All Programs


Colleges & Schools




Limited Enrollment Programs




LEP Admission for Current Students







        Want more information about our majors?
      

        Academics
      






Student Life






        Want to learn more about life as a Terp?
      

        Student Life
      



Housing & Dining


Student Support & Safety


Get Involved on Campus


Find Your Community







How To Apply







Freshman Applicants


Transfer Applicants




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program FAQs






International Applicants




English Language Proficiency
Obtaining a Visa
Financial Certification




Shady Grove Applicants




Shady Grove Terp Transfer Partnership






Application Deadlines


Admission Review Process & Factors


Application FAQs




Freshman Application FAQs
Transfer Application FAQ
Essay Questions
Submitting Documents







        Ready to apply?
      

        How to Apply
      






Tuition & Aid






        Need more information on cost of attendance at UMD,  financing your education and merit scholarships?
      

        Tuition & Aid
      



Cost of Attendance


Freshman Merit Scholarships


Transfer Merit Scholarships




Frederick Douglass Scholarship




Office of Student Financial Aid


















Home
Transfer Applicants
Maryland Transfer Advantage Program

        Maryland Transfer Advantage Program FAQs
      






              Maryland Transfer Advantage Program FAQs
            


Have questions about the Maryland Transfer Advantage Program (MTAP) at the University of Maryland (UMD)? We have answers. Save time by reviewing answers to these frequently asked questions before contacting the Office of Undergraduate Admissions.


Please refer back to the Maryland Transfer Advantage page for updates on the application process.


      MTAP Eligibility
    



    Who should consider applying to MTAP?
  


Students who intend to complete 30 credits or an associate’s degree at a participating community college after graduating from high school.
Students currently attending a participating community college who plan to transfer to UMD to complete a bachelor’s degree.






    Who is ineligible to apply?
  


Spring admitted freshman
Students who are re-enrolling at UMD
Students currently enrolled at a four-year institution
Students who have been academically dismissed from UMD
Students who apply for MTAP and admission to the university at the same time
High school students who are dually enrolled at a community college
Students who have previously earned a bachelors degree






    What are the participating community colleges?
  


Anne Arundel Community College
Carroll Community College
Cecil College
Chesapeake College
College of Southern Maryland
Community College of Baltimore County
Frederick Community College
Harford Community College
Howard Community College
Montgomery College
Prince George’s Community College
Wor-Wic Community College





      Applying to MTAP
    



    When should a student apply to MTAP?
  


You are encouraged to apply to MTAP as soon as you are accepted to a participating community college, but you can apply by the deadline prior to your last semester. When available, you can find the application on the MTAP page as well as the associated deadlines. 
You must participate in MTAP for a minimum of one semester before transferring. When you are ready to transfer to UMD as a degree-seeking student, please complete the application for transfer admission by the appropriate early action deadline.






    How do students apply to MTAP?
  


Complete and submit the MTAP online application. 
MTAP applications must be submitted no later than the application deadline of June 1 or November 15.
Once your application is submitted, your community college will be informed and the community college will submit your enrollment verification form and transcript (if applicable). After these items are received, your MTAP application will be complete and the Office of Undergraduate Admissions will review your application.






    How will an applicant for MTAP be informed regarding their acceptance into the program?
  


		Students will receive an MTAP admission decision email within 4-6 weeks after the MTAP application deadline. MTAP emails will be sent directly to the email provided on the MTAP application.





    What is the best way to get in touch with someone from MTAP?
  


Email:
 mtap@umd.edu
Mail:  
University of Maryland
Office of Undergraduate Admissions
Mitchell Building
7999 Regents Dr.
College Park, MD 20742-5235, USA

Fax:
 1.301.314.9693




      MTAP Completion Requirements & Transferring to UMD
    



    How does a student complete the MTAP requirements?
  


Students must participate in MTAP for a minimum of one semester before transferring to UMD and not matriculate to any other institution of higher education after MTAP acceptance. 
Complete 30 college credit hours or earn an associate’s degree from an MTAP partner community college.
Earn a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.0 or a B average from all previous institutions attended.
Complete Fundamental Studies Academic English and Mathematics. 

Please note: AP/IB credits or credits from another institution may count towards the fundamental English (only English Composition) and math requirements. The original AP test scores must be sent to the Office of Undergraduate Admissions from College Board and/or IB from International Baccalaureate.





    If I have AP/IB credits or credits from another institution, may I use them towards my MTAP completion requirements or UMD transfer application requirements?
  


No, AP/IB credits earned will not count towards the 30 credits required for MTAP completion or the transfer application. If any of the 30 credits for the transfer application were completed from an AP/IB exam, that student will need to send their high school transcript and SAT/ACT scores to UMD by the early action deadline in order to have a complete application. If all 30 credits were completed at the community college then no high school transcript or SAT/ACT scores will be needed.
Credits earned at another two- or four-year institution can be used to meet the MTAP and UMD transfer application requirements, as long as the last 15 credits are completed at one of the eight participating community colleges. 






    How does a student gain admission to UMD?
  


Submit the UMD transfer application by the early action deadline. On the application, please indicate your participation in MTAP. 
MTAP participants do not receive special consideration for acceptance into Limited Enrollment Programs or any specific major. 
MTAP students are not guaranteed admission at the University of Maryland at the Universities at Shady Grove. Students who wish to participate in their Terp Transfer Partnership should review the webpage for more information.






    When should an MTAP participant transfer to UMD?
  


You should submit the transfer application by the early action deadline, following the semester in which you will complete the MTAP requirements. Upon successful completion of the program requirements, you are guaranteed admission to UMD. 
At a minimum, you must participate in the program for one semester for all benefits to apply.
If you have questions about the admission process, please contact the Office of Undergraduate Admissions.






    What if I miss the early action deadline?
  


The early action deadline for MTAP students is strongly encouraged and space is limited for those who submit an application after the early action deadline.
All MTAP participants who have completed international coursework must complete their application by the early action deadline.
If you are an MTAP participant and you are an international student, please refer to the requirements for transfer admission.
















      There is a lot more to learn about UMD, so let's stay in touch!
    






Join Our Mailing List







Connect

















              Undergraduate Admissions
            

                  Mitchell Building
                

                  7999 Regents Dr.
                

                  College Park, MD 20742
                


1-800-422-5867
ApplyMaryland@umd.edu



























Majors & Minors


Student Life


Admissions Requirements


Application Deadlines
Application Deadlines


Tuition & Aid




              Information For:
            

Prospective Students


Parents & Families


Counselors & Advisors
Counselors & Advisors


Admitted Students










Visit UMD






Apply Now






Connect









umd.edu


Privacy Policy


Web Accessibility


        © 2023 UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND
      









