










Philosophy, Politics, and Economics Major (PPE) | Department of Philosophy





      Skip to main content
    


Skip to main content









Apply


Give


Trigger Search



Search this Site

Go



        Menu
        
Trigger Menu









Close

Search this Site

Go



Primary Header Navigation


ARHU Home


Home


About


People


Faculty


Staff


Graduate Students


Directory




Academic Programs


Undergraduate Program


Philosophy Major


Philosophy, Politics and Economics Major


Advising


Why Study Philosophy?


Awards




Graduate Program


PhD and MA Programs


Admissions and Funding


Information for Current Students


Placement






Courses


Research






Secondary Header Navigation


News


Events


Directory


Prospective Students


Current Students


Diversity and Inclusion


Faculty & Staff Resources


Contact











Philosophy, Politics, and Economics Major (PPE)






Breadcrumb


Home


Academic Programs


Undergraduate Program


















Undergraduate Program Overview
Philosophy Major and Minor
Advising
Undergraduate Philosophy Clubs
Why Study Philosophy?
Awards




Overview
The Philosophy, Politics, and Economics (PPE) undergraduate major is an interdisciplinary program that uses tools and methods from economics and political science to help answer difficult social and political questions that have traditionally been the domain of philosophy: How should we live together? What would be the best way for us to organize our social and political institutions? How should we address our most difficult problems, from inequality to discrimination to immigration to climate change? 
A PPE education is important because many of the world’s most pressing problems are incredibly complex. Though philosophy has always promised to address issues of this kind, successfully tackling these sorts of problems requires more than philosophy alone. Our future leaders and fellow citizens need to know about ethics, rationality and reasoning, and the nature of knowledge (philosophy); about institutions and collective action (politics); and about the economy, formal modeling, and rational choice (economics). The PPE major trains students in this kind of thinking. In using tools and methods from economics and political science to help answer difficult social and political questions we expand students’ reasoning tool kit, so they have more resources to bring to bear on some of the world’s most difficult problems.
PPE is an established degree across the globe. Oxford University established its PPE degree in the 1920’s, and several world leaders have studied PPE at Oxford. The analytical tools acquired in the PPE major are excellent for those wishing to pursue careers in law, government, business, and non-profits/NGOs.
Program Director: Dan Moller
Contact philadv@umd.edu with any questions or inquiries about the program. 













Course Requirements


To earn a degree in Philosophy, Politics, and Economics, students must take 13 courses for a total of 39 credits. The breakdown of course requirements is as follows:
Disciplinary Foundations (All required) (18 credits)
PHIL140: Contemporary Moral Issues
PHIL245: Political and Social Philosophy I
ECON200: Principles of Microeconomics
ECON201: Principles of Macroeconomics
GVPT170: American Politics
PLCY100: Foundations of Public Policy
Core Sequence (All required) (9 credits)
PHPE400: Individual and Group Decision-Making
PHPE401: Social Philosophy and Political Economy
PHPE402: Senior Capstone Seminar in Philosophy, Politics, and Economics
Electives (Four required) (12 credits)
Any PHPE course at the 300-400 level, besides PHPE400, PHPE401, and PHPE402.
AASP301: Applied Policy Analysis and the Black Community
AASP314: The Civil Rights Movement
AASP499: Special Topics in Public Policy and the Black Community
BMGT468Y: Entrepreneurial Capitalism Around the World
COMM330: Argumentation and Public Policy
COMM458: Seminar in Political Communication
COMM469: The Discourse of Social Movements
ECON311: American Economic History Before the Civil War
ECON312: American Economics After the Civil War
GVPT409I: The Politics of Human Rights
GVPT439A: Comparative Constitutional Law
HIST319: Special Topics in History
HIST329: Special Topics in History
HIST326: The Roman Republic
HIST328L: Selected Topics in History; Empires, Revolutions and Cold Wars
HIST339: Special Topics in History
HIST415: Ideas and Politics in Europe Since 1900
HIST419: Special Topics in History
HIST428: Selected Topics in History
HIST450: American Capitalism, 1600-1900
HIST451: American Capitalism, 1900-present
PHIL338D: Studies in Value Theory; The Ethics of Sex
PHIL338J: Studies in Value Theory; Supreme Law: The Constitution, Morality, and the Courts
PHIL341: Ethical Theory
PHIL344: Philosophy of Race
PHIL347: Philosophy of Law
PHIL440: Contemporary Ethical Theory
PHIL445: Contemporary Political Philosophy
PHIL446: Law, Morality, and War
WMST 400: Theories of Feminism
WGSS302: Feminist, Critical Race, and Queer Theories
A PPE student may petition the Director of PPE to have an individual course (300-level or above) count as an elective contributing to that student's completion of the PPE major.




Program Objectives


The PPE program aims to:
(1) Equip students with methods from the disciplines of philosophy, political science, and economics. 
(2) Encourage students to apply these methods to a diverse array of topics and questions across disciplinary boundaries, especially to normative topics and questions. 
(3) Combine these methods in productive ways to carry out thoughtful, original research. 
(4) Equip students with the ability to write clearly and concisely, read and distil information carefully, and construct arguments in an organized and convincing manner.
(5) Inspire a love for learning from a diverse array of scholarly disciplines. 




Careers and Internships


The College of Arts and Humanities has a special office devoted to career and internship advising for students majoring or minoring in arts and humanities. Services provided by the University Career Center @ ARHU include: 
Job search strategies (networking, follow-up etiquette, informational interviews, etc.)
Developing customized application materials for desired industry or field of choice
Preparing for interviews
Salary research
How to make contacts within a specific industry
Internship search strategies 
Please see their webpage for information on walk-in hours and scheduling an appointment.
The Bright Future ‘Unpaid Internship’ Scholarship awards students with need-based scholarships ranging from $250-$1250 to help offset expenses incurred during unpaid internships. Click here for more details. 




















													Department of Philosophy
													Skinner Building
													4300 Chapel Lane
												College Park, MD 20742
301.405.5689







Primary Footer Navigation


ARHU Home


Home


About


People


Academic Programs


Courses


Research








Secondary Footer Navigation


Apply


Give


News


Events


Directory


Prospective Students


Current Students


Diversity and Inclusion


Faculty & Staff Resources


Contact












Follow Us





© 2024 University of Maryland

Log In
Privacy Policy
Web Accessibility













