


















Academic Minors - UMD College of Information Studies















































News
Events
Apply
Give
Contact











News
Events
Apply
Give
Contact
 


About 

Message From Dean
Dean’s Lecture Series
Vision, Diversity & History
Values
Info Challenge Initiative
Annual Reports, Fast Facts & Rankings
iLEAD Council
Senior Leadership
Directory
In Memoriam
Jobs at the INFO College


Research 

Expertise Areas
Research Labs, Centers, Groups
Research Projects
Research Improvement Grants
Research Resources


Academics 

Bachelor’s Programs
Academic Minors
Combined Bachelor’s/Master’s Programs
Master’s Programs
Doctoral Program
Certificates & Non-Degree Study
Student Services
Student Resources, Aid, Careers


Alumni 

Alumni Network
Alumni Spotlights
Alumn of the Year Awards
Upcoming Events
Career Resources
Ways to Connect
INFO Commons Campaign


Partners 

iConsultancy: Capstone Projects
Corporate Partners
KidsTeam: Youth Tech Co-Design


 







Academic Minors
Home   /   
                    Academics


These exciting academic minors are offered to UMD undergraduate students.


Science, Technology, Ethics and Policy (STEP) Minor


The Science, Technology, Ethics, and Policy (STEP) Minor is an interdisciplinary program sponsored by the School of Public Policy, the College of Information Studies, and the A. James Clark School of Engineering. Students in the minor explore the ways that scientific practice and technological development are embedded in social, cultural, humanistic, and political systems. Students will develop tools for anticipating potential social, ethical, and political problems and employ these insights for emerging science and technology governing strategies; and investigate how culture, politics, economics, law, professional training, funding, and employment settings affect the pursuit of science and the development of technology. This minor is available to UMD College Park or UMD Shady Grove students. Courses are delivered online.
More Information



Careers
Specific organizations in which students with this minor would find employment include:

The United Nations
World Health Organization
The Department of Defense
The Department of State
NASA
Apple
Meta
Google
Deep Mind
Lockheed Martin


Courses
6 Credits of Core Courses

ENES240 Introduction to Science, Technology, Ethics, and Policy
ENES440 Science, Technology, Ethics, and Policy Capstone

9 Credits from Concentration Areas

Political and Policy Implications
Science and Technology Development
Information Economy






The Information Risk Management, Ethics, and Privacy Minor

The 5-course (15 credits) undergraduate minor in Risk Management, Ethics, and Privacy is designed to prepare students to evaluate major information and big data privacy and security issues that businesses and individuals are faced with. The curriculum will examine risks companies face while collecting, storing, and managing information and their existing customers’ and stakeholders’ data. The coursework will focus on practical strategies to mitigate risks and explore the ways emerging technologies benefit in the context of risk management, ethics, and privacy. Must be a UMD College Park (UMCP) student. Courses are available at the UMCP campus or online.
Contact Advising   Apply Now




Careers
Students will be prepared for entry-level positions such as:

Information Security Analyst
Data Privacy Analyst
Data Security Analyst
Security Analyst
Information Technology Consultant
Information Security Specialist
Information Assurance Analyst

According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, information security and information assurance are among the top 15 fastest-growing occupations, with a growth rate (2016-29) of 31% and ranks sixth in terms of median pay (over $92,000).
Source: https://www.bls.gov/ooh/fastest-growing.htm

Courses

Human-Centered Cybersecurity (3 credits)
Privacy, Security and Ethics for Big Data (3 credits)
Risk Management Leadership in the Information Age (3 credits)
Information Assurance & Compliance (3 credits)
Emerging Technologies and Risk Management (3 credits)






The Technology Innovation Leadership Minor


The 5-course (15 credits) undergraduate minor in Technology Innovation Leadership prepares students to effectively create and navigate a climate of technological innovation within an organization or team. By combining creative leadership, design thinking, and understanding socio-technical challenges, students will tackle large-scale problems relating to technology innovation. Innovative thinking approaches incorporated into the curriculum will allow students to create new ideas and energy and solve socio-technical challenges through leadership experiences. The coursework will examine the different ways leaders and social entrepreneurs strategically use innovative technologies and information to solve social, cultural, and environmental problems. This minor is available to UMD College Park or UMD Shady Grove students. Courses are delivered online.
Contact Advising    Apply Now



Careers
Technology innovations create opportunities for companies and organizations in a variety of industries; therefore, students will be able to apply skills in many different business domains. Students who have completed this minor will have the expertise to support the mission and vision of innovative technology companies and will be in demand to join organizations that create economic and social value. Students will be prepared for entry-level positions such as:

Project/Program/Product Manager
Business Analyst
Strategy Analyst/Strategy Consultant/Strategic Manager
Scrum Master
Organizational Change Management Consultant


Courses

Fundamentals of Technology Innovation (3 credits)
Leading and Sustaining a Culture of Innovation (3 credits)
Lean Tech Startup (3 credits)
Project Management (3 credits)
The Technology Socialpreneur (3 credits)




    INFO Home  Inf0 Academics  Contact Us










Contact
News
Events
Jobs
Faculty & Staff Resources
Privacy Policy
Web Accessibility


University of Maryland ·
College of Information Studies ·
4130 Campus Drive ·
Hornbake Library, Rm. 0201 ·
College Park, MD 20742-4345 ·
(301)405-2033 ·
Hours: Mon-Fri, 9am-4pm
      Copyright © 2024 · UMD College of Information Studies.  All rights reserved.
      

TwitterTwitter FacebookFacebook YoutubeYoutube InstagramInstagram  LinkedInLinkedIn

 













