




















Elementary/Middle Special Education, Bachelor of Science (B.S.) | UMD College of Education










      Skip to main content
    















Toggle navigation







Main navigation


About

Open





College Profile

Open





Strategic Plan


COE Centennial





Office of the Dean

Open





Meet the Dean


Leadership Team


Dean's Lecture Series


Board of Visitors


Shared Governance





Administrative Offices

Open





Assessment Office


Dean's Business Office


EdTerps Learning Academy


Educational Technology Services


Marketing and Communications


Office of Advancement





Contact Us


Visit


EdTerpsEngage





Academics

Open





Departments

Open





Counseling, Higher Education, and Special Education


Human Development and Quantitative Methodology


Teaching and Learning, Policy and Leadership





Programs

Open





Undergraduate


Masters


Doctoral


Teacher Certification


Certificate Programs


Off-campus Programs





Accreditation


Rankings





Admissions

Open





Financial Aid & Scholarships

Open





UMD Financial Aid


COE Scholarships


Freshmen Scholarships


AmeriCorps Scholarships


Graduate Funding


Transfer Student Scholarships


Federal and State Aid





Programs

Open





Undergraduate


Masters


Doctoral


Teacher Certification


Certificate Programs


Off-campus Programs








People

Open





Faculty


Staff


Students


Find an Expert





Research

Open





Centers and Institutes


Labs


Research News


Terrapin EdTalks


COE Research Office


Find an Expert





Students

Open





Student Services

Open





Undergraduate Students


Graduate Students


Contact Us





Student & Campus Resources


Financial Aid & Scholarships


Student Groups


Commencement





Alumni & Giving

Open





Get Involved


Alumni News


Giving





News & Events

Open





Newsroom


In the News


For the Media


Endeavors Magazine


Events





Diversity

Open





#EdTerpsDialogue


EDUC TerrapinSTRONG


Council on Racial Equity and Justice (COREJ)


COE Hate and Bias Policy












Search


Find





Secondary Menu


Give


Apply




Social Media


Facebook


Twitter


Instagram


YouTube















Elementary/Middle Special Education, Bachelor of Science (B.S.)













EDSP

CHSE







      Overview
  



Welcome!  We are so glad you are seeking information about a major in special education at the University of Maryland.  This overview will provide you with basic information about our program. The Elementary/Middle Special Education Teacher Preparation Program leads to a Bachelors of Science (B.S.) degree with teacher certification. There are through two tracks of study available to students, both tracks prepare our candidates to meet varying learner needs in diverse classrooms through DUAL certification options.
Track 1 - Special Education Certification:  Mild to Moderate Disabilities Certification (Grades 1-8) and Severe Disability Certification (Birth-22)
Track 2 - General and Special Education Certification: Elementary Education Certification and Mild to Moderate Disabilities Certification (Grades 1-8)
The brochure below will provide you with more details about the mission and vision of the program and certification tracks:
TRACKS OF STUDY BROCHURE.PDF  

 
 
 
 
 
Certification Overview: What is Initial Certification?
Graduates are eligible for special education (Track I) or dual special and elementary education (Track II) initial teacher certification in the state of Maryland, with reciprocity in 49 states. The four-year, 120-credit-hour course of study prepares teachers to assume the increasingly complex and sophisticated responsibilities of a teacher of students with and without disabilities. To ensure preparation for diverse classroom settings and needs, faculty embed self-reflection, advocacy, critical consciousness, and cultural competence throughout the program of study. Teacher candidates will be prepared to teach students withsupport students at-risk, students in need of intervention, and students with  mild (high incidence) to severe (low incidence) disabilities, across disability categories. Distinctive programmatic features include:
Focus on Autism/Autism Spectrum Disorders, Learning Disabilities, Behaviors Disorders, Physical Disabilities, Intellectual Disabilities, Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder, Developmental Delays, and Physical and Other Health Impairments.
Focus on collaboration in co-taught inclusive classrooms
Rigorous and relevant coursework to develop the knowledge, skills, and dispositions necessary for successful teaching careers in special education 
Focus on evidence based instructional practices and decision making
Year Long Internship (Field Experience) in inclusive, diverse classrooms
What Skills are Highlighted in the Special Education and Dual Certification Program?  The Elementary/Middle Special Education Teacher Preparation is designed to prepare professionals to work with students in Grades 1 through 8 with varying needs, design inclusive classrooms, and to collaborate with their families and other educational personnel. Teacher candidates in the program develop skills to:
Assess the academic and social strengths and limitations of elementary and middle school aged students with and without disabilities
Plan individualized educational lessons/instruction and support services that promote inclusive experiences and independent performance
Individualize, implement, and evaluate evidenced based instructional methods
Organize learning environments designed to meet individual needs
Enhance access, engagement, and participation in inclusive classroom settings.
Use universal design for learning, accommodations, modifications, and assistive technology to support
Do you want a Masters Degree After Completing Initial Certification? Following completion of initial teacher certification all students are invited to apply to the “Double Count” Masters Degree program.  The “Double Count” program is an opportunity to obtain a Masters Degree in Special Education at a significantly reduced cost.  Specifically, 12 credits of your undergraduate coursework will count toward the graduate degree.  The application of the credits decreases both the cost and time required for the Special Education Masters Degree.
       Informational Video:

 
 
 
 
 
https://youtu.be/5jlVJ2sj1Cs
Please feel free to reach out to us for additional information, with questions you may have, or just to chat to learn more about what we offer future special and general education teachers. We are excited that you are considering UMD and hope that we will hear from you soon regarding your interest in our program.  Please see “Program Contacts” section.





      Admissions Requirements
  



For information on undergraduate admission to the University, please visit https://www.admissions.umd.edu.
Once admitted to the University, students in the College of Education must meet the Selective Admissions requirements in order to proceed into the Professional portion of the Elementary-Middle Special Education program.  The Selective Admissions requirements for the Elementary-Middle Special Education program are as follows:
Academic Requirements

Completion of a minimum of 45 credits
Cumulative UMD GPA of 2.75 or higher; 3.0 GPA is recommended for best consideration and for graduate programs
Completion of lower-level Fundamental English requirement with a “C-” or better
Completion of lower-level Fundamental Math requirement with a “C-” or better(NOTE: Special Education majors must take STAT 100)
Minimum passing scores on a Test of Basic Skills

Gateway Requirements
For current students graduating in the Spring 2022 semester or before:

Satisfactory completion of EDSP 210 or EDSP 470 with a "B-" or better
Satisfactory completion of STAT 100 with "C" or better

Effective Fall 2019 for students graduating in the Spring 2023 semester or after:

EDSP 210 (or approved substitute) with a B- or higher 
2.70 Cumulative GPA in the following courses:

Biological Science with Lab
Physical Science with Lab
MATH 212
STAT 100



*Each of the above 4 Gateway Courses must be completed with a minimum grade of "C-".
Experiential Requirements

Prior experience in the education field with youth in the age range you intend to teach
A written goal statement
Two letters of recommendation (one must be from a faculty member)
Submission of the College of Education Foundational Competencies/Model Code of Ethics for Educators (FC/MCEE)






      How to Apply
  



STEP ONE: Apply for undergraduate admission to the University. 
Once admitted to the University, proceed to Step Two after working with a COE Academic Advisor.
STEP TWO:  Please submit your application to the Professional Teacher Education Program online.





      Advising for Prospective Students
  



If you have questions about coursework, field experiences, program mission, or tracks of study please contact: Dawn Martin, DJMartin@umd.edu 
If you have questions about the yearlong internship please contact: Stacey Williams, staceyw@umd.edu
If you have questions about admission or advising please contact the Office of Student Services, ed-advising@umd.edu, or 301-405-2364.
 
 





      Advising for Current Students
  



For more information visit the COE Undergraduate Advising website. 





      Financial Aid/Scholarships
  



 For a list of the College of Education Scholarship opportunities, click here.





      Program Benchmarks/Requirements
  



Special Education Benchmarks- Specific benchmarks are required for admission and continuation in the Professional Teacher Education Programs. Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission to the Professional Teacher Education program. Admission to the professional program is competitive. 
Special Education Sample 4-year Plan
 





      Program Contacts
  



Director of Special Education Teacher Certification: Dawn J. Martin - djmartin@umd.edu





      Policies, Handbooks, and Forms
  



To access Undergraduate Forms, Policies and Procedures, click here. 





















Footer


Contact us


Faculty & Staff Resources


Make a Gift


Search


Sitemap


Web Accessibility


Privacy Policy




 University of Maryland
College Park, MD 20742
Copyright © 2022 University of Maryland



Social Media


Facebook


Twitter


Instagram


YouTube
















