







Office of Undergraduate Admissions | Housing & Dining





































Skip to main content













Undergraduate  Admissions




















Visit UMD





Apply Now





Connect





Search







Academics 







All Programs


Colleges & Schools




Limited Enrollment Programs




LEP Admission for Current Students







        Want more information about our majors?
      

        Academics
      






Student Life






        Want to learn more about life as a Terp?
      

        Student Life
      



Housing & Dining


Student Support & Safety


Get Involved on Campus


Find Your Community







How To Apply







Freshman Applicants


Transfer Applicants




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program FAQs






International Applicants




English Language Proficiency
Obtaining a Visa
Financial Certification




Shady Grove Applicants




Shady Grove Terp Transfer Partnership






Application Deadlines


Admission Review Process & Factors


Application FAQs




Freshman Application FAQs
Transfer Application FAQ
Essay Questions
Submitting Documents







        Ready to apply?
      

        How to Apply
      






Tuition & Aid






        Need more information on cost of attendance at UMD,  financing your education and merit scholarships?
      

        Tuition & Aid
      



Cost of Attendance


Freshman Merit Scholarships


Transfer Merit Scholarships




Frederick Douglass Scholarship




Office of Student Financial Aid


















Home

        Housing & Dining
      






              Housing & Dining
            


Academics aside, when it comes to choosing a college, housing and dining can be big factors.


Where you sleep. There is a variety of housing options, both on and off-campus. The Department of Resident Life and Off Campus Housing Services help Terps find their home away from home.
Where you eat. From vegan cuisine to exotic ethnic menus and comfort-food favorites, UMD’s Department of Dining Services meets the dining needs of our campus community.





















Denton Hall, an on-campus residence hall, lit up at night.











Inside look at a residence hall room within Pyon-Chen Hall.











There are many off campus apartment complexes located in College Park and the surrounding areas.











Dining Services chef and nutritionist.











The Stamp Student Union food court.









      Department of Resident Life
    

Find your home away from home with the help of the Department of Resident Life. Whether you live in traditional-style, semi-suites, or apartment/suite style housing, living on-campus is your opportunity to fully immerse in the Terrapin community, make lifelong connections and be within steps of everything you need for a successful transition to college life. 9 out of 10 UMD freshmen live in the university's residence halls and all university housing has live-in resident assistants and successful upper-class students who can help you find your groove academically and socially.


360 Tour of UMD Residence Halls






      Off Campus Housing Services
    

The university’s Off-Campus Housing Services provides personalized information and resources about housing and off-campus living. Resources available online include a searchable database listing rental properties in the area and the ability to search for roommates with similar housing needs and interests.


Off Campus Housing Database
Off Campus Housing Database






      Dining Services
    

Whether you choose to live on- or off-campus, you can take advantage of a dining plan that suits your needs and gives you unlimited access to food, seven days a week for the whole semester, while classes are in session and during finals. Allergen-free, vegan and vegetarian selections are available and students who keep kosher can select a plan from Maryland Hillel.


Dining Services for Students


















        Resources
      




                Living-Learning Programs
              

Nothing connects students more than our highly regarded living-learning programs, where students with a common interest share residence halls, classrooms, faculty and friendships to dig deep into contemporary topics and get unique research experiences. Roughly half of all first-year students find their niche in one of these programs. To be considered for a living-learning program, you must apply for freshman admission by the November 1 early action deadline.


Learn More About Living-Learning Programs
Learn More About Living-Learning Programs




















      There is a lot more to learn about UMD, so let's stay in touch!
    






Join Our Mailing List







Connect

















              Undergraduate Admissions
            

                  Mitchell Building
                

                  7999 Regents Dr.
                

                  College Park, MD 20742
                


1-800-422-5867
ApplyMaryland@umd.edu



























Majors & Minors


Student Life


Admissions Requirements


Application Deadlines
Application Deadlines


Tuition & Aid




              Information For:
            

Prospective Students


Parents & Families


Counselors & Advisors
Counselors & Advisors


Admitted Students










Visit UMD






Apply Now






Connect









umd.edu


Privacy Policy


Web Accessibility


        © 2023 UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND
      









