







Office of Undergraduate Admissions | International Applicants





































Skip to main content










Undergraduate  Admissions




















Visit UMD





Apply Now





Connect





Search







Academics 







All Programs


Colleges & Schools




Limited Enrollment Programs




LEP Admission for Current Students







        Want more information about our majors?
      

        Academics
      






Student Life






        Want to learn more about life as a Terp?
      

        Student Life
      



Housing & Dining


Student Support & Safety


Get Involved on Campus


Find Your Community







How To Apply







Freshman Applicants


Transfer Applicants




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program FAQs






International Applicants




English Language Proficiency
Obtaining a Visa
Financial Certification




Shady Grove Applicants




Shady Grove Terp Transfer Partnership






Application Deadlines


Admission Review Process & Factors


Application FAQs




Freshman Application FAQs
Transfer Application FAQ
Essay Questions
Submitting Documents







        Ready to apply?
      

        How to Apply
      






Tuition & Aid






        Need more information on cost of attendance at UMD,  financing your education and merit scholarships?
      

        Tuition & Aid
      



Cost of Attendance


Freshman Merit Scholarships


Transfer Merit Scholarships




Frederick Douglass Scholarship




Office of Student Financial Aid



























            International Applicants
          

The University of Maryland (UMD) is committed to creating a diverse student body from around the globe. On this page you'll find all the information you need to apply as an international student.


Apply Now
Start your UMD application








Home

        International Applicants
      








      APPLYING AS AN INTERNATIONAL STUDENT
    





Freshman and transfer students are considered international applicants if they are non-U.S. citizens or non-permanent U.S. residents.In addition to the freshman or transfer applicant requirements, international students must also satisfy international specific requirements such as English language proficiency and non-U.S. academic credential evaluations.Below you will find information on international application requirements and deadlines, a complete list of required application materials and more.









              Application Requirements
            

In addition to the required criteria for freshman or transfer admission, the Admission Committee will also consider the following factors for all international applicants:
National education systemTypes of institutions attendedEnglish language proficiencyThird-party academic evaluations for non-U.S., university level, academic credentials
Additional information about English language proficiency and academic evaluations can be found below, within the application checklist.



Freshman Application Requirements


Transfer Application Requirements













      Choosing a Major
    

Whether you know exactly what you want to study or are still figuring it out, we encourage you to explore UMD's academic programs. As you explore you may see that some of our majors are considered Limited Enrollment Programs (LEP). These programs have limited space and, therefore, have more competitive admission criteria.
On the UMD application, you'll select a preferred major. This information will not impact whether or not you are admissible to the university. If you selected an LEP, you will also be reviewed by the specific program to determine admission to your preferred major.
While most students are admitted to their preferred major, some LEP applicants may not be. Students who are undecided or undeclared (working on getting into an LEP) will work with Letters & Sciences advisors to explore their interests or complete LEP gateway requirements.
























        Benefits of Applying Early Action
      

We strongly encourage all international students to apply early action in order to receive:
Priority consideration for admission.Invitations to special programs.An admission decision by February 1. This will ensure ample time to work through the immigration process and obtain a visa.

UMD's November 1 early action deadline is non-binding and students who submit a completed application by this date will receive an admission decision by February 1. By applying for admission to the fall semester, you will also be automatically considered for admission to the spring semester.


View All Application Deadlines
View All Application Deadlines




        Application Platforms
      

Freshman students can apply to UMD using either of the following platforms:
Common AppStandOut Admissions Network
At this time, transfer students can only apply using StandOut Admissions Network.

The application platform you choose will not make a difference on how your application will be reviewed. Choose the platform you are comfortable using.


Apply Now
Start your UMD application









      Application Checklist
    





Utilize our application checklists to ensure you're submitting all required application materials.






When completing your application, remember to use your full legal name as it appears on your passport in your application and on all supporting documents, and be sure to provide a foreign street address—not a P.O. Box—as your permanent home address so we can issue the necessary immigration documents if you are admitted.








    Checklist for International Freshman
  


1. COMPLETED ONLINE APPLICATION
The freshman application can be submitted online via the Common App or StandOut Admissions Network. The online application only needs to be submitted once, so choose the platform you are most comfortable using.
As part of the online application you will be required to submit a(n):
Essay | This is your opportunity to share your personality and experiences with the Admission Committee. Get inspired by one of our essay questions.Activities and awards list or resume | Tell us how you spend your time outside the classroom! Please start by sharing the two experiences outside of academics that are most important to you. Whether community involvement, the arts, sports, work experience, research opportunities, family involvements or other activities and hobbies, you should share only what has been particularly meaningful (up to a maximum of eight).Nonrefundable application fee of $75 | When submitting your application you will be required to pay a $75 application fee on our secure website with a credit card unless you have received a fee waiver. Fee waivers must be submitted prior to application submission for consideration. We cannot accept cash or check payments.
2. TWO LETTERS OF RECOMMENDATION
Two letters of recommendation are required: one from your school counselor and one from a teacher. Recommendations must be sent to us directly from the recommender. Learn how recommendation letters can be submitted on our Submitting Documents page.

3. OFFICIAL COPY OF YOUR HIGH SCHOOL TRANSCRIPTS
Each institution you've attended must submit an official copy of your high school transcript(s) listing all courses you attempted/completed for grades 9-12. Transcripts must be sent in the native language, along with the certified English translation. Learn how transcripts can be submitted on our Submitting Documents page.
Where appropriate, include official results and certificates of completion from national secondary school examinations such as GCSE/GCE, CBSE national and regional, CXC/CSEC and WAEC. Stand alone exam results will not be accepted.

4. OFFICIAL COPY OF YOUR COLLEGE TRANSCRIPTS (if necessary)
If you have completed any collegiate coursework, each institution you've attended must submit an official copy of your college transcripts listing all courses you attempted/completed. Transcripts must be sent in the native language, along with the certified English translation. Learn how transcripts can be submitted on our Submitting Documents page.
UMD requires all students with non-U.S. academic credentials to submit a third-party academic evaluation for all post-secondary/university credentials from one of the two evaluators listed below (this is not required for secondary school academic records). Evaluations must be received by the appropriate deadline.
Educational Credential Evaluators (ECE) | Start the evaluation process with ECE by visiting their Education Reports page.Requirements: course-by-course evaluation, original transcript(s) and a certified English translation of the transcript(s), grade point average calculation, upper division course designation.
Josef Silny & Associates (JS&A) | Start the evaluation process with JS&A by using their application for evaluation form.Requirements: course-by-course evaluation, original transcript(s) and a certified English translation of the transcript(s), grade point average calculation, upper division course designation for students with more than 1 year of post-secondary/university education completed.
5. OFFICIAL STANDARDIZED TEST SCORES (optional)
UMD is currently test-optional through to the Spring and Fall 2025 application cycles. Students can choose whether or not to submit SAT/ACT scores with their application. As part of the online application, you will be able to indicate your test-optional status. If you choose to include your test scores, learn how to submit them on our Submitting Documents page.
If you would like to receive credit toward your degree for successfully completing Advanced Placement (AP), International Baccalaureate (IB), A/AS level examinations or certain other standard exams, you must submit those official scores upon receiving an offer of admission.

6. PROOF OF ENGLISH PROFICIENCY
If English is not your native language—regardless of your citizenship—you must provide the Office of Undergraduate Admissions with an official English proficiency test score by the appropriate deadline. We accept scores from the Duolingo English Test (DET), the International English Language Testing System (IELTS) or the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL). Your test scores must be less than two years old and be sent directly by the testing agency. Your application will not be considered complete until your scores have been received.
The Office of Undergraduate Admissions will consider all materials submitted in the application package to determine your level of English language proficiency. Proof of proficiency may be waived at the discretion of the Office of Undergraduate Admissions. Learn more about UMD's requirement and potential waivers on our English Language Proficiency page.

7. SCHOOL OF MUSIC APPLICATION (School of Music applicants only)
In addition to the above items, students seeking enrollment into the School of Music must submit an online application supplement and audition. These items will only be used to determine your eligibility for admission into the School of Music and will not be used in the review of your eligibility for admission to UMD.





    Checklist for International Transfers
  


1. COMPLETED ONLINE APPLICATION

The transfer application can be submitted online via the StandOut Admissions Network.

As part of the online application you will be required to submit a(n):
Essay | This is your opportunity to share your personality and experiences with the Admission Committee. Please use our transfer student essay prompt.Activities and awards list or resume | Detail your efforts in the community, arts, leadership, athletics, family involvements, work experience and other extracurricular activities and hobbies in order of interest to you. This information can be submitted via the Activities/Experience section of the Profile or by uploading a separate document.Nonrefundable application fee of $75 | When submitting your application you will be required to pay a $75 application fee on our secure website with a credit card unless you have received a fee waiver. Fee waivers must be submitted prior to application submission for consideration. We cannot accept cash or check payments.
2. OFFICIAL COPY OF YOUR COLLEGE TRANSCRIPTS
Each institution you've attended must submit an official copy of your college transcripts listing all courses you've attempted/completed. A final official transcript from your current institution must be sent upon completion of any courses in progress. Transcripts must be sent in the native language, along with the certified English translation. Learn how transcripts can be submitted on our Submitting Documents page.
UMD requires all students with non-U.S. academic credentials to submit a third-party academic evaluation for all post-secondary/university credentials from one of the two evaluators listed below (this is not required for secondary school academic records). Evaluations must be received by the appropriate deadline.
Educational Credential Evaluators (ECE) | Start the evaluation process with ECE by visiting their Education Reports page.Requirements: course-by-course evaluation, original transcript(s) and a certified English translation of the transcript(s), grade point average calculation, upper division course designation.
Josef Silny & Associates (JS&A) | Start the evaluation process with JS&A by using their application for evaluation form.Requirements: course-by-course evaluation, original transcript(s) and a certified English translation of the transcript(s), grade point average calculation, upper division course designation for students with more than 1 year of post-secondary/university education completed.
3. OFFICIAL COPY OF YOUR HIGH SCHOOL TRANSCRIPTS (if necessary)
If you have completed fewer than 30 semester or 45 quarter hours post high school graduation, then at the time of applying you will need to request an official copy of your final high school transcript listing all courses you have completed. (AP/IB credits and placement tests cannot be used towards the overall 30 semester hours or 45 quarter hours.) Transcripts must be sent in the native language, along with the certified English translation. Learn how transcripts can be submitted on our Submitting Documents page.
Where appropriate, include official results and certificates of completion from national secondary school examinations such as GCSE/GCE, CBSE national and regional, CXC/CSEC and WAEC. Stand alone exam results will not be accepted.

4. OFFICIAL STANDARDIZED TEST SCORES (optional)
Traditionally, transfer students who completed fewer than 30 semester or 45 quarter hours post high school graduation, would need to submit their SAT and/or ACT scores at the time of applying. However, UMD is currently test-optional through to the Spring and Fall 2025 application cycles, which means you have the option to choose whether or not you would like your test scores considered as a part of your application review. If you choose to include your test scores, learn how to submit them on our Submitting Documents page.
If you would like to receive credit toward your degree for successfully completing Advanced Placement (AP), International Baccalaureate (IB), A/AS level examinations or certain other standard exams, you must submit those official scores upon receiving an offer of admission.

5. PROOF OF ENGLISH PROFICIENCY
If English is not your native language—regardless of your citizenship—you must provide the Office of Undergraduate Admissions with an official English proficiency test score by the appropriate deadline. We accept scores from the Duolingo English Test (DET), the International English Language Testing System (IELTS) or the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL). Your test scores must be less than two years old and be sent directly by the testing agency. Your application will not be considered complete until your scores have been received.
The Office of Undergraduate Admissions will consider all materials submitted in the application package to determine your level of English language proficiency. Proof of proficiency may be waived at the discretion of the Office of Undergraduate Admissions. Learn more about UMD's requirement and potential waivers on our English Language Proficiency page.
6. LETTER OF RECOMMENDATION (optional)
You may choose to submit a letter of recommendation with your application. Recommendations must be sent to us directly from the recommender, and they can be written by anyone of the applicant's choosing including teachers, counselors, coaches and mentors. Learn how recommendation letters can be submitted on our Submitting Documents page.

7. SCHOOL OF MUSIC APPLICATION (School of Music applicants only)
In addition to the above items, students seeking enrollment into the School of Music must submit an online application supplement and audition. These items will only be used to determine your eligibility for admission into the School of Music and will not be used in the review of your eligibility for admission to UMD.











              MAKING SURE YOUR UMD APPLICATION IS COMPLETE
            

Applications are considered complete when the online application and all required documents have been submitted electronically or postmarked by the appropriate deadline. It is your responsibility to confirm receipt of all materials.
To do so...
Freshman students will need to create a Terps Application Portal (TAP). You'll receive an email with instructions on how to activate a TAP account within two business days of submitting your online application.
Transfer students can login to their StandOut Admissions Network account, and review their UMD Checklist within the Colleges.
These platforms will allow you to:
Track your application status.Confirm receipt of required materials.Receive your admission decision when it becomes available.
Keep in mind: It may take up to 10 business days for recently submitted materials to be listed as received within TAP.
You do not need to submit your visa, financial certification or other supporting international documents for a completed application. These documents are only needed if you are admitted to the university.








      Services for International Students
    











      International Student & Scholar Services
    

The International Student Scholar Services (ISSS) office assists international students with transitioning to the U.S., advising on immigration requirements, and making the most of their academic experience here. While students don't start working with ISSS until they have been admitted to the university, we encourage you to visit their website to learn more about international requirements as well as the services available to international students.
It's also important to familiarize yourself with UMD's financial certification requirements and the process to obtain a visa. Once admitted, ISSS will help you with these processes in further detail.


Explore ISSS









      Maryland English Institute
    

The Maryland English Institute (MEI) provides English language instruction and assessment at the postsecondary level for speakers of other languages. MEI offers rigorous courses of study while providing a positive and supportive learning community and promoting cross-cultural understanding. 
In some cases, UMD applicants must complete coursework through MEI before beginning their degree program. Students are notified within their admission decision letter if this is required of them.


Learn More About MEI
Maryland English Institute webpage















      Pre-Transfer Advising
    

Transfer students from two-year and four-year schools are encouraged to take advantage of Pre-Transfer Advising before applying to UMD. Pre-Transfer Advising will help assess your readiness to transfer and estimate your time to degree completion. You can also review 4-Year Plans for information about the major and graduation requirements for specific programs.
The advisors from your Maryland community college can work closely with pre-transfer advisors for issues related to transfer credits and major options. Pre-Transfer advisors help you determine how previous coursework will apply to your UMD degree, identify remaining general education and major requirements, and locate specific resources for additional assistance.


Reach Out to Pre-Transfer Advising
Reach Out to Pre-Transfer Advising









      Transfer Credit Services
    

Transfer Credit Services facilitates the evaluation of credit for new students who have earned college credit or prior learning credits (such as AP, IB, A/AS level exams). They provide a course database to help students and advisors estimate what credits will transfer to UMD. A final determination will be made after being admitted to UMD and a review of your official college transcripts.


Learn About Transfer Credit Services
Learn About Transfer Credit Services















        Resources
      




                Application FAQs
              

If questions come up as you're filling out the UMD application, be sure to reference our frequently asked questions. We've gathered answers about the application platforms, required materials, what to do after you've applied, and more.


Review Application FAQs
Review Application FAQs













                Submitting Documents
              

Find details on the best way to submit all of your required application materials.


Submitting Documents
Learn more about how to submit application materials













                Admission Review Process & Factors
              

Familiarize yourself with our holistic review process and the many factors we consider when reviewing applications.


Admission Review Process & Factors




















      There is a lot more to learn about UMD, so let's stay in touch!
    






Join Our Mailing List







Connect

















              Undergraduate Admissions
            

                  Mitchell Building
                

                  7999 Regents Dr.
                

                  College Park, MD 20742
                


1-800-422-5867
ApplyMaryland@umd.edu



























Majors & Minors


Student Life


Admissions Requirements


Application Deadlines
Application Deadlines


Tuition & Aid




              Information For:
            

Prospective Students


Parents & Families


Counselors & Advisors
Counselors & Advisors


Admitted Students










Visit UMD






Apply Now






Connect









umd.edu


Privacy Policy


Web Accessibility


        © 2023 UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND
      









