







Office of Undergraduate Admissions | Homepage





































Skip to main content










Undergraduate  Admissions




















Visit UMD





Apply Now





Connect





Search







Academics 







All Programs


Colleges & Schools




Limited Enrollment Programs




LEP Admission for Current Students







        Want more information about our majors?
      

        Academics
      






Student Life






        Want to learn more about life as a Terp?
      

        Student Life
      



Housing & Dining


Student Support & Safety


Get Involved on Campus


Find Your Community







How To Apply







Freshman Applicants


Transfer Applicants




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program FAQs






International Applicants




English Language Proficiency
Obtaining a Visa
Financial Certification




Shady Grove Applicants




Shady Grove Terp Transfer Partnership






Application Deadlines


Admission Review Process & Factors


Application FAQs




Freshman Application FAQs
Transfer Application FAQ
Essay Questions
Submitting Documents







        Ready to apply?
      

        How to Apply
      






Tuition & Aid






        Need more information on cost of attendance at UMD,  financing your education and merit scholarships?
      

        Tuition & Aid
      



Cost of Attendance


Freshman Merit Scholarships


Transfer Merit Scholarships




Frederick Douglass Scholarship




Office of Student Financial Aid












































            Be A Terp
          

Terps love a challenge. A problem that needs a solution. A barrier            that needs breaking down. You are smart, scrappy and determined. You            value diversity, innovation, entrepreneurship and imagination. Ready            to start your fearless journey?


Explore Academics at UMD
Explore Academics at UMD
























        Information For:
      


Prospective Students

Parents & Families

Counselors & Advisors

Admitted Students






























        About UMD
      

The University of Maryland (UMD) is the state of Maryland's flagship institution, a top-ranked public research university, and a global leader in research, entrepreneurship and innovation. Our campus community is strengthened by the richness of perspectives, lifestyles and personalities brought together here. We are home to students, faculty, staff, and nearly 405,000 alumni dedicated to moving Fearlessly Forward in pursuit of excellence and impact for the public good.



Rankings & Fast Facts







1856

                  Year UMD was founded as the Maryland Agricultural College
                



Land Acknowledgement


UMD's Commitment to Diversity













              You can only learn so much about the University of Maryland from a website.
            




Plan Your Visit




































You will get to know the university as a world-class leader in research and teaching, entrepreneurship and innovation, and sustainability and security. But most of all, you will get to know us as caring people who are committed to the success of our university and students.






              James B. Massey, Jr.
                    Director of Undergraduate Admissions




































        Academics
      

With over 100 majors across 12 colleges and schools, we have you covered. Pick one, pick two or even create your own major through our Individual Studies Program and explore a new interest through one of our 90+ minors.



Explore Academics at UMD
Explore Academics at UMD




18:1

                  Student-to-faculty ratio
                



All Programs
Explore majors and minors


Colleges & Schools
Colleges & Schools










              Have questions? The Office of Undergraduate Admissions is here for you.
            




Get In Touch
Connect with admission representatives

























I was nervous to send my child so far away, but the support and resources at UMD have made her feel at home. She’s made great friends.





              Mom of a class of ‘24 student
                    Dorothy P.




































        Student Life
      

There is more to the University of Maryland than what you learn in the classroom. Whatever experience you're looking for to round out your education, you can find it here. And our proximity to Washington, D.C. means limitless opportunities.



Explore Student Life at UMD
Learn more about student life at UMD.




800+

                  Student Clubs & Organizations
                


40+

                  Club Sports
                












              Speaking to UMD students during an on-campus event can help you learn first-hand what it’s like to #BeATerp!
            




Plan Your Visit




























I am proud to #BeATerp! You'll find that students and professors on campus are welcoming and want you to succeed. I'm part of an accomplished campus that values diversity, academics, and social and professional opportunities. With 800+ clubs and 100+ majors, you'll find people with the same passions as you.





              Angelica G. '23
                    Public Policy Student




































        How to Apply
      

You’ve done your research and explored your options, and you know that UMD is the perfect place for you. Now you're ready to apply! To get started, review the steps to apply on the freshman, transfer, or international application page.



Learn How to Apply to UMD
Learn How to Apply to UMD




24

                  Admission Review Factors
                



Submitting Documents
Learn more about how to submit application materials


Admission Review Process
Learn about the admission review process










              If you know that UMD is the perfect place for you, get started on your application.
            




Apply Now
Start your UMD application





















                    Tuition & Aid
                  

The University of Maryland offers an array of financial aid programs—including scholarships, grants, loans and student employment—as part of our commitment to making an excellent education affordable. We encourage you to visit the Office of Student Financial Aid to explore types of aid and ways to finance a higher education.



Learn About Tuition & Aid at UMD
Visit UMD's Tuition & financial aid page.




                      Resources
                    


ESTIMATED COST OF ATTENDANCE
Estimated Cost of Attendance


OFFICE OF STUDENT FINANCIAL AID
Office of Student Financial Aid


LEARN ABOUT TERRAPIN COMMITMENT




                    Important Dates
                  

We have several application deadlines, depending on what type of applicant you are and the semester you wish to start at the University of Maryland. Review all deadlines to determine when you should apply and when you can expect to receive an admission decision.



View All Application Deadlines




                      Early Action Deadlines
                    



                        Freshman Applying for Fall
                      

                        November 1
                      



                        Transfers Applying for Fall
                      

                        March 1
                      



                        Shady Grove Applying for Fall
                      

                        June 1
                      



                        Transfers Applying for Spring
                      

                        August 1
                      



                        Shady Grove Applying for Spring
                      

                        November 15
                      













      There is a lot more to learn about UMD, so let's stay in touch!
    






Join Our Mailing List







Connect

















              Undergraduate Admissions
            

                  Mitchell Building
                

                  7999 Regents Dr.
                

                  College Park, MD 20742
                


1-800-422-5867
ApplyMaryland@umd.edu



























Majors & Minors


Student Life


Admissions Requirements


Application Deadlines
Application Deadlines


Tuition & Aid




              Information For:
            

Prospective Students


Parents & Families


Counselors & Advisors
Counselors & Advisors


Admitted Students










Visit UMD






Apply Now






Connect









umd.edu


Privacy Policy


Web Accessibility


        © 2023 UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND
      









