







Office of Undergraduate Admissions | Student Support & Safety





































Skip to main content













Undergraduate  Admissions




















Visit UMD





Apply Now





Connect





Search







Academics 







All Programs


Colleges & Schools




Limited Enrollment Programs




LEP Admission for Current Students







        Want more information about our majors?
      

        Academics
      






Student Life






        Want to learn more about life as a Terp?
      

        Student Life
      



Housing & Dining


Student Support & Safety


Get Involved on Campus


Find Your Community







How To Apply







Freshman Applicants


Transfer Applicants




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program FAQs






International Applicants




English Language Proficiency
Obtaining a Visa
Financial Certification




Shady Grove Applicants




Shady Grove Terp Transfer Partnership






Application Deadlines


Admission Review Process & Factors


Application FAQs




Freshman Application FAQs
Transfer Application FAQ
Essay Questions
Submitting Documents







        Ready to apply?
      

        How to Apply
      






Tuition & Aid






        Need more information on cost of attendance at UMD,  financing your education and merit scholarships?
      

        Tuition & Aid
      



Cost of Attendance


Freshman Merit Scholarships


Transfer Merit Scholarships




Frederick Douglass Scholarship




Office of Student Financial Aid


















Home

        Student Support & Safety
      






              Student Support & Safety
            


Safety is the shared responsibility of each campus community member. We know that students thrive in a community they feel safe and supported in and continue to work toward a safer and more secure community.



      Academics
    




Tutoring servicesCareer Center - Whether you’re looking to gain experience through an internship, fine tune your resume, practice your interviewing skills or evaluate a job offer, the Career Center has you covered. You’ll receive support at every stage of your career development and will be prepared to pursue a meaningful career path through high-quality services, resources and instruction.



      Wellness
    




University Health Center - Provides high-quality, cost-effective health care and wellness programs in order to promote the health of the university community and support academic success.Counseling Center - Provides comprehensive support services that promote the personal, social and academic success of UMD students.Recreation & Wellness - Creates a culture of wellness where all members of the university community thrive. Recreation is for everyone and there is something for everyone at RecWell.


      Safety
    




Call University Police at 911 or (301) 405-3555. If you ever see a situation involving fighting between partners or groups, threatening actions or statements, screams, suspicious persons or behavior, weapons, etc., do not hesitate to call police immediately. Then, call your Service Desk or CA.
Blue Light ProgramPolice EscortsOpt-in Safety AlertsUID Only Accessibility 


      Transportation & Parking
    

Whether you live on campus or off, the Department of Transportation Services makes it easy to get around. Shuttle-UM buses operate several campus-based routes and serve a six-mile radius beyond, taking students to Metro station, shops, restaurants and more than two dozen apartment communities. All you need to ride Shuttle-UM is your student ID. It’s also a snap to travel to Washington, D.C., Baltimore and local airports by using Metrorail and MARC trains.
If you’re living off campus, permits for campus parking are available for purchase from the Department of Transportation Services.
Shuttle-UM - DOTS provides routes that circulate around campus, commuter routes to neighboring communities and Park & Ride routes that can be tracked on the Transit app. Students can also use the NITE Ride evening service to get around campus when shuttle routes are not operating.BikeUMD - Students can bring their own bike to campus or rent one from the RecWell Bike Shop. Community members can also utilize the shared mobility system provided by VEO in partnership with the City of College Park and University Park.Local & Regional Transit - College Park connects to many local and regional transit options that make many destinations easily accessible. It’s also a snap to travel to Washington, D.C., Baltimore and local airports by using Metrorail and MARC trains.Parking - Flexible parking permit options are available for each individual working, living and learning situation. If you are going to have a car on campus, you will need a parking permit. Permits can be purchased on the Department of Transportation Services website.













      There is a lot more to learn about UMD, so let's stay in touch!
    






Join Our Mailing List







Connect

















              Undergraduate Admissions
            

                  Mitchell Building
                

                  7999 Regents Dr.
                

                  College Park, MD 20742
                


1-800-422-5867
ApplyMaryland@umd.edu



























Majors & Minors


Student Life


Admissions Requirements


Application Deadlines
Application Deadlines


Tuition & Aid




              Information For:
            

Prospective Students


Parents & Families


Counselors & Advisors
Counselors & Advisors


Admitted Students










Visit UMD






Apply Now






Connect









umd.edu


Privacy Policy


Web Accessibility


        © 2023 UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND
      









