




















Early Childhood and Early Childhood Special Education, Bachelor of Science (B.S.) | UMD College of Education










      Skip to main content
    















Toggle navigation







Main navigation


About

Open





College Profile

Open





Strategic Plan


COE Centennial





Office of the Dean

Open





Meet the Dean


Leadership Team


Dean's Lecture Series


Board of Visitors


Shared Governance





Administrative Offices

Open





Assessment Office


Dean's Business Office


EdTerps Learning Academy


Educational Technology Services


Marketing and Communications


Office of Advancement





Contact Us


Visit


EdTerpsEngage





Academics

Open





Departments

Open





Counseling, Higher Education, and Special Education


Human Development and Quantitative Methodology


Teaching and Learning, Policy and Leadership





Programs

Open





Undergraduate


Masters


Doctoral


Teacher Certification


Certificate Programs


Off-campus Programs





Accreditation


Rankings





Admissions

Open





Financial Aid & Scholarships

Open





UMD Financial Aid


COE Scholarships


Freshmen Scholarships


AmeriCorps Scholarships


Graduate Funding


Transfer Student Scholarships


Federal and State Aid





Programs

Open





Undergraduate


Masters


Doctoral


Teacher Certification


Certificate Programs


Off-campus Programs








People

Open





Faculty


Staff


Students


Find an Expert





Research

Open





Centers and Institutes


Labs


Research News


Terrapin EdTalks


COE Research Office


Find an Expert





Students

Open





Student Services

Open





Undergraduate Students


Graduate Students


Contact Us





Student & Campus Resources


Financial Aid & Scholarships


Student Groups


Commencement





Alumni & Giving

Open





Get Involved


Alumni News


Giving





News & Events

Open





Newsroom


In the News


For the Media


Endeavors Magazine


Events





Diversity

Open





#EdTerpsDialogue


EDUC TerrapinSTRONG


Council on Racial Equity and Justice (COREJ)


COE Hate and Bias Policy












Search


Find





Secondary Menu


Give


Apply




Social Media


Facebook


Twitter


Instagram


YouTube















Early Childhood and Early Childhood Special Education, Bachelor of Science (B.S.)













EDSP
HD

CHSE
HDQM







      Overview
  



The Bachelor of Science Degree in Early Childhood (Pre-K-3rd) & Early Childhood Special Education (birth through age 8) (EC/ECSE) is an intensive, cross-departmental (Departments of Counseling, Higher Education and Special Education and Human Development and Quantitative Methodology) teacher education program for individuals who are interested in teaching young children with and without disabilities.
The UMD EC/ECSE program is evidence-based, building on the research emanating from its two sponsoring departments, on development, learning, pedagogy, and disabilities. In addition to the growing numbers of young children with recognized disabilities, a unique focus of the program is an emphasis on preparing teachers to work with young children who are culturally and linguistically diverse and at environmental risk due to poverty, immigrant status, and other contextual factors. Such factors add an additional set of challenges to narrowing the achievement gap among young children.
Mission Statement. The mission of the Early Childhood/Early Childhood Special Education program is to prepare knowledgeable and skilled teachers who utilize theory, research and pedagogy, to respectfully and responsively teach and positively affect the lives of children, with and without disabilities, who are diverse in culture and socioeconomic status.
Rationale for the Program. Based upon strong departmental research agendas, as well as national and state standards for Early Childhood and Early Childhood Special Education teacher education programs, the EC/ECSE curriculum has been developed around 6 core themes:



Child Development, (typically developing and atypically developing), Learning and Intervention
Children in the context of families and communities
Assessment (developmental and classroom-based)
Integrated content courses focused on Common Core State Standards
Culturally responsive and differentiated pedagogy
Inquiry and reflection



Program Curriculum. The Early Childhood/Early Childhood Special Education (EC/ECSEE) program is divided into two phases: Pre-Professional and Professional course-work. During the first two years, freshman and sophomore students complete a series of courses to build a foundation of EC/ECSE. Upon completion of these courses, students apply for formal admission to the EC/ECSE Professional program. During the Professional program, students continue to take courses while moving into the internship phases. Throughout the program students have the opportunity to be placed in several field experiences culminating in a year-long internship in both an inclusive Early Childhood classroom and an Early Childhood Special Education setting.In addition to content based methods and child development courses, as well as an action research course, students will complete a number of courses focused on special education and learning of young children who face challenges such as poverty, immigrant status and other contextual factors. It should be noted that although some courses focus solely on issues related to young children with disabilities (e.g., assessment for special education eligibility), most courses include strategies for enhancing the participation and learning of young children with disabilities (e.g., Universal Design for Learning).
Practicum ExperiencesApplication of knowledge and skill development will occur during three semesters of early field experiences followed by internships in culturally diverse, Title I Professional Development School (PDS) in an urban community or Early Childhood Center (for infants, toddlers and preschoolers with special needs).
Professional Program. The Professional Program in Teacher Education is the phase in which all Education students take advanced courses in teaching strategies, methods of teaching and educational support. Also this is the part of the program where students complete their field experience through their teaching internship. Students will go through an application process in order to start taking the professional courses.





      Admissions Requirements
  



For information on undergraduate admission to the University, please click here.  
Once admitted to the University, students in the College of Education must meet the Selective Admissions requirements in order to proceed into the Professional portion of the Early Childhood/Early Childhood Special Education program.  The Selective Admissions requirements for the Early Childhood/Early Childhood Education program are as follows:
Academic Requirements

Completion of a minimum of 45 credits
Cumulative UMD GPA of 2.75 or higher; 3.0 GPA is recommended for best consideration
Completion of lower-level Fundamental English requirement with a “C-” (2.0) or better
Completion of lower-level Fundamental Math requirement with a “C-” (2.0) or better
Minimum passing scores on a Basic Skills Tests (see advisor for details)

Gateway Courses

Satisfactory completion of EDHD 220 with a “B-” (3.0) or better
Satisfactory completion of the following courses with a 2.7 GPA:

MATH 212 – Elements of Mathematics
MATH 213 – Elements of Geometry
4-Credit CORE Physical Science with Lab course (PL)
4-Credit CORE Biological Science with Lab course (LL)



Experiential Requirements

Prior experience in the education field with youth in the age range you intend to teach
A written goal statement
Two letters of recommendation (one must be from a faculty member or instructor in your content area)
Satisfactory rating on the College of Education Foundational Competencies/Model Code of Ethics for Educators






      How to Apply
  



STEP ONE: Apply for undergraduate admission to the University.
      Once admitted to the University, proceed to Step Two after working with a COE Academic Advisor.
STEP TWO:  Please submit your application to the Professional Teacher Education Program online.





      Advising for Prospective Students
  



Please contact the Office of Student Services, ed-advising@umd.edu or 301-405-2364.





      Advising for Current Students
  



For more information visit the COE Undergraduate Advising website. 





      Financial Aid/Scholarships
  



For a list of the College of Education Scholarship opportunities please click here.





      Program Benchmarks/Requirements
  




Early Chilldhood/Early Childhood Special Education Four Year Plan
EC/ECSE Course and Field Placement Chart





      Program Contacts
  



Who to contact:Dr. Christy Tirrell-CorbinDirectorCollege of Education3304 Benjamin BuildingCollege Park, MD 20742ecepds@umd.edu





      Associated Faculty
  



Dr. Christy Tirrell-Corbin
Director, EC/ECSE
Clinical Professor
Human Development and Quantitative Methodology
Dr. Jennifer Amilivia
Assistant Clinical Professor
Counseling, Higher Education and Special Education
Dr. Elisa Klein
Associate Professor
Human Development and Quantitative Methodology
Dr. Joan Lieber
Professor Emerita
Counseling, Higher Education and Special Education
Stephanie Varner
PD Coordinator
Human Development and Quantitative Methodology





      Policies, Handbooks, and Forms
  



To access Undergraduate Forms, Policies and Procedures please click here.





















Footer


Contact us


Faculty & Staff Resources


Make a Gift


Search


Sitemap


Web Accessibility


Privacy Policy




 University of Maryland
College Park, MD 20742
Copyright © 2022 University of Maryland



Social Media


Facebook


Twitter


Instagram


YouTube
















