




















Public Policy Major | UMD School of Public Policy





























      Skip to main content
    























Search


Info For...



Students


Faculty & Staff


Alumni


Employers


Parents








Our Community


The Maryland Way


Diversity, Inclusion & Belonging at SPP


Inclusion Resources


Reports, Plans and Data


DEIB Goals and Community Expectations


Get Involved




Student Life


Policy Student Government Association


Student Groups


Kappa Omega Alpha Fraternity


Pi Alpha Alpha Honor Society




Our New Home


School Leadership


Dean's Advisory Council


Strategic Plan




Faculty & Staff


Alumni


Meet the Board




Partners


Giving


Giving Opportunities






Your Education


Undergraduate


Public Policy Major


Plans of Study




Minors


Co-Curricular Programs




Master's


Master of Public Policy


Master of Public Management


MPP/MPM Specializations


Dual Degrees


Bachelor's/Master of Public Policy




Executive Master of Public Management


Master of Professional Studies - Public Administration




PhD


Executive Development


State and Local Government


Federal Government


International Programs


Sustainable Urban Management and International Training Program (SUMIT)




Leadership and Policy Programs




Certificates


Nonprofit Management and Leadership


Science, Technology, and Innovation Policy




Courses


Experiential Learning


Study Abroad


Austria & United Kingdom


France


India


Indonesia


Italy


Peru






Admissions


Undergraduate Admissions


Prospective Students


Admitted Students




Master's Admissions


Admitted Students




PhD Admissions


Certificate Admissions


Financial Aid & Scholarships


Robertson Fellows Program


Coverdell Fellows Program




Tuition & Fees


Connect with Us




Research & Impact


Centers & Institutes


Strategic Focus Areas


International Policy


Leadership & Management


Philanthropy & Nonprofit


Social Policy


Sustainability


Science & Technology Policy




Initiatives


Civic Maryland Initiative


Cyber Policy Initiative


Health In All Policy Initiative


State and Local Governance Initiative




Projects


Publications




Career Connections


Build Your Career Strategy


Broaden Your Experience


Engage With Policy Professionals




News


Events


Contact


Faculty & Staff










News


Events


Contact




Toggle Search


Search


Info For...



Students


Faculty & Staff


Alumni


Employers


Parents








Our Community


Join a powerful network of Terps committed to making a difference.



The Maryland Way


Diversity & Inclusion


Student Life


Our New Home


School Leadership




Faculty & Staff


Alumni


Partners


Giving







Your Education


Gain the skills, experiences and networks you need to translate your passions to action.



Undergraduate


Master's


PhD


Executive Development




Certificates


Courses


Experiential Learning


Study Abroad







Admissions


Find your new home at the center of the policy world.



Undergraduate Admissions


Master's Admissions


PhD Admissions


Certificates




Financial Aid & Scholarships


Tuition & Fees


Connect With Us







Research & Impact


Learn how SPP is advancing the frontiers of knowledge at home and around the world.



Centers & Institutes


Center for Global Sustainability


Center for International & Security Studies at Maryland


Center for Governance of Technology and Systems


Civic Innovation Center


Do Good Institute


Institute for Public Leadership 






Strategic Focus Areas


Initiatives


Projects


Publications







Career Connections


Harness the power of your degree to take the next big step in your career.



Build Your Career Strategy


Broaden Your Experience




Engage with Policy Professionals













This site requires JavaScript. See how to enable JavaScript in your browser.



Public Policy Major



Home


Your Education


Undergraduate


                  Public Policy Major
              











Undergraduate


Public Policy Major


Plans of Study




Minors


Co-Curricular Programs









Gain the tools and perspectives needed to translate your passions into real action. Launch a career as a bold problem solver and fearless changemaker. 


        Jump to: Curriculum
      


The Bachelor of Arts in Public Policy is a hands-on, interdisciplinary program that gives you the analytical and decision-making skills to make a positive difference. Focused on problems and solutions rather than theories or institutions, the public policy major prepares you to be an effective champion of real change. Whether you are passionate about reducing poverty and inequality, tackling climate change, reforming immigration or any issue that inspires you, the public policy major is the foundation you need to make an impact.
Highlights
Take a diverse set of courses that bring together an understanding of how to think about complex problems with the tools and approaches to create real solutions and positive change.
Engage in hands-on learning and work with clients on real-world projects through internships and coursework.
Access the expansive professional opportunities found in the national capital region, from the corridors of the US Capitol to the hallways of Annapolis.



        Declare the Major
      




Learn more about 



What is Public Policy?

                                                    Watch Video
                                            





Learn more about 



Public Policy Careers

                                                    Watch Video
                                            





Learn more about 



Life as a Policy Terp

                                                    Watch Video
                                            








Being so close to the center of this nation’s political sphere is an unmatched perk of studying public policy at SPP. So many opportunities present themselves in this area.



Jordan Teixeira 



Curriculum
The public policy major curriculum consists of two components - a required set of courses that provides a conceptual, analytical and practical foundation in public policy, and an elective set of courses (a pre-designed focus area, a self-designed focus area, or a general set of policy electives) that allow a deeper exploration of particular topics. You must complete 120 total credits (58 credits for the public policy major and your general education requirements) to graduate with a degree in public policy. 




        
  Required Courses

    


Benchmark Requirements
Students are expected to demonstrate continuing progress in their major by successfully completing the following courses in the specified timeframes:
Benchmark Requirement 1 
Must be completed by the end of two semesters into the major
PLCY100 Foundations of Public Policy
HIST201 Interpreting American History: From 1865 to the Present
Benchmark Requirement 2
Must be completed by the end of four semesters into the major
PLCY101 Great Thinkers on Public Policy
STAT100 Elementary Statistics and Probability or higher (STAT100 equivalent accepted)
Core Requirement
PLCY201 Public Leaders and Active Citizens 
PLCY203 Liberty and Justice for All: Ethics and Moral Issues in Public Policy 
PLCY300 Governance: Collective Action in the Public Interest (Pre-req: PLCY100)
PLCY302 Examining Pluralism in Public Policy 
PLCY303 Public Economics: Raising and Spending the People's Money (Pre-req: ECON200) 
PLCY304 Evaluating Evidence: Finding Truth in Numbers (Pre-req: STAT100 or equivalent) 
PLCY306 Public Policy Analysis in Action (taken after 60 credits)
PLCY309 Policy Internship (OR Approved Study Abroad) 
PLCY400 Senior Capstone (taken after 90 credits; Pre-req: PLCY306)
PLCY401 Contemporary Issues in Public Policy (taken after 90 credits)
ECON200 Principles of Microeconomics  
Introduction to Public Policy Focus Area or General Policy elective






        
  Electives

    


In addition to the required core courses for the Public Policy major, Policy majors must take four policy elective courses. Students have two options when it comes to selecting electives: 1) They can choose to declare a focus area, working with an advisor to select a focus area (listed below), or (2) they can choose general policy electives from either within or outside the School of Public Policy. 
General Elective Plan
Students who wish to take a variety of Public Policy courses and not declare a focus area may select four electives to round out their Policy curriculum. These students have the option to choose from courses within the School of Public Policy (PLCY courses) or select electives from other schools/departments. 
- If all four electives are PLCY courses, no approval is needed. Students may choose any four electives that interest them from the School of Public Policy.
- If any of the four electives are outside of the School of Public Policy, students must have their course plans approved by their academic advisor and should complete the Using Non-PLCY Courses as Electives Form.
Focus Areas 
Gender and Racial Justice
Students pursuing the Gender and Racial Justice Focus area must take the required anchor course as well as three additional electives from the list below.  Students should then complete the Focus Area Approval Request Form.
PLCY288A:  Introduction to Public Policy Topics; 21st Century Racial Justice and Gender from the Bullhorn to the Ballot (required anchor course)
PLCY288B:  Introduction to Public Policy Special Topics:  The Impact of Discriminatory Housing Policies on the Black Community
PLCY311:  Women in Leadership
PLCY388A:  Special Topics in Public Policy:  Child and Family Policy Impact
PLCY388I:  Special Topics in Public Policy:  Child and Family Advocacy Impact
PLCY388P:  Special Topics in Public Policy:  US Immigration Policy  
PLCY388Z:  Special Topics in Public Policy:  Race, Capitalism, and the Wealth Gap
AASP101:  Public Policy and the Black Community
AASP187:  African-Americans, Mass Incarceration and the Prison Industrial Complex
AASP298P:  Poverty, Race and African-American Children
AASP313:  Black Women in US History (cross-listed with HIST329E & WGSS/WMST314)
AASP314:  The Civil Rights Movement
AASP443:  Blacks and the Law
AASP499T:  Special Topics in PP and the Black Community; Race and the Juvenile Justice System
AAST222:  Immigration and Ethnicity in the United States
AAST298A:  Special Topics in Asian American Studies; Islam in/and America
AAST398B:  Asian American Social Policy and Community Advocacy
AAST398C:  Politics of Transnational Adoption - Intersectional Analysis of Class, Race, Gender, and Nationality
AAST398F:  Intro to Comparative Ethnic Studies
AAST398X:  Immigrant Communities, Leadership, and Organization
AAST499M:  Asian American Public Policy
AMST120:  Race, Gender, and the Global Economy
ANTH264:  Immigration Policy, Immigrant Lives (cross-listed with IMMR219C)
CCJS325:  Slavery in the 21st Century:  Combatting Human Trafficking
CCJS346:  Domestic Violence
CCJS370:  Race, Crime, and Criminal Justice (prereq: CCJS100 and permission from department)
ECON175:  Inequality: Determinants and Policy Remedies
FMSC290:  Family Economics (Restricted to majors or non-majors with less than or equal to 60 credits)
FMSC381:  Poverty, Affluence, and Families (prereq: SOCY100 or SOCY105; must be FMSC major)
FMSC420:  African American Families
FMSC430:  Gender Issues in Families
FMSC489E:  The Role of Men in Gender Equitable Communities
GVPT368L:  African-American Politics from Frederick Douglass to Barack Obama (cross-listed with AASP499P)
IMMR200 (USLT219A):  Introduction to Immigration and Migration Studies
LASC234:  Issues in Latin American Studies I
LASC235:  Issues in Latin American Studies II
LASC250:  History of Colonial Latin America
LASC251:  Latin America Since Independence
LGBT285:  Homophobia in the US Society in the New Millennium
LGBT448C:  Sex and the City
LGBT448J:  International LGBT Issues
LGBT448K:  Sexual Orientation, Gender Identity, and Human Rights
LGBT448L:  Law and Identities
SOCY236:  Gender and Health
SOCY241:  Inequality in American Society
SOCY242:  Sociology of Homelessness
SOCY325:  The Sociology of Gender (cross-listed with WMST325)
SOCY424:  Sociology of Race Relations (prereq: 6 credits of SOCY; cross-listed with AAST424)
SOCY432:  Social Movements (prereq: 6 credits of SOCY)
USLT202:  US/Latino Studies II - Contemporary Overview 1960s to Present
ULST403:  Citizens, Refugees, and Immigrants (cross-listed with AAMST498N & IMMR419D)
WMST200:  Introduction to WGSS - Gender, Power, and Society
WMST211:  Love, Labor & Citizenship - American Women since 1880 (cross-listed with HIST211)
WMST265:  Constructions of Manhood and Womanhood in the Black Community
WMST325:  The Sociology of Gender
WMST380:  Feminist Analysis of the Workplace
WMST420:  Asian American Women:  The Social Construction of Gender
WMST425:  Gender Roles and Social Institutions
WMST491:  Judaism and Construction of Gender
WMST498M:  Women and the Civil Rights Movement (cross-listed with AASP498I and HIST360)
Global Action and Problem Solving (GAP) 
Students in the GAP Focus area must take the required anchor course as well as three additional electives from the list below.  Students should then complete the Focus Area Approval Request Form.  Students wanting additional courses focused on global and international issues can look for sections of core classes designated as global as well as the Politics and Pandemics section of PLCY401.
PLCY388W: Special Topics in Public Policy; Global Action and Problem Solving (Required anchor course)
PLCY388C: Special Topics in Public Policy; Cybersecurity Policy: Practical Hacking for Policymakers
PLCY388G: Special Topics in Public Policy, Global Perspectives on Leading and Investing in Social Change
PLCY388Q: Special Topics in Public Policy; Introduction to International Security
PLCY388R: Special Topics in Public Policy: Nuclear Security Policy
ANTH265 Anthropology of Global Health
ANTH323 Plagues, Pathogens and Public Policy
AREC365 World Hunger, Population, and Food Supplies
CCJS325 Slavery in the Twenty First Century: Combating Human Trafficking
ENST 233 Introduction to Environmental Health
ENST436 Emerging Environmental Threats (pre-req of ENST233)
FGSM310--FGSM390 (Federal Fellows and Global Fellows courses, as relevant)
FMSC110S Families and Global Health
SOCY335 Sociology of Health and Illness
Other courses outside of the School of Public Policy upon approval 
International Security Policy
Students in the Security Policy Focus area must take the required anchor course and then choose three additional electives from the list below.  Students should then complete the Focus Area Approval Request Form.  Students wanting an additional course in the core can take the Modern Warfare section of PLCY401 or the Politics and Pandemics section of PLCY401.
PLCY388Q: Special Topics in Public Policy; Introduction to International Security (required anchor course)
PLCY388C: Special Topics in Public Policy; Cybersecurity Policy: Practical Hacking for Policymakers
PLCY388M: Special Topics in Public Policy; Homeland Security and World Order
PLCY388R: Special Topics in Public Policy: Nuclear Security Policy
PLCY699K: Civil Conflict and Terrorism (by permission)
PLCY 798C: Science, Technology, and International Security Policy (by permission)
PLCY 798M: Arms Control and Nonproliferation Policy (by permission)
FGSM330/HNUH 338T: Homeland & National Security Policy (Federal Fellows)
FGSM355/HNUH359T: International Security and Intelligence (Global Fellows)
FGSM350/HNUH358T: Critical Regions & International Relations (Global Fellows)
FGSM360/HNUH368T: U.S. Diplomacy (Global Fellows)
Other courses outside of the School of Public Policy upon approval 
Nonprofit Leadership and Social Innovation 
Choose four courses from the Nonprofit minor course list and complete the Focus Area Approval Request Form.
Public Leadership 
Choose four courses from the Public Leadership minor course list and complete the Focus Area Approval Request Form.
Sustainability Studies 
Choose four courses from the Sustainability minor course list and complete the Focus Area Approval Request Form.
Create your own Focus Area 
Students interested in building their own focus area should create a sample plan including four electives that share a common area of study.  Examples include Education Policy, Criminal Justice Policy, Election Security, etc. Students who wish to take this route must have their sample plan of study approved by their academic advisor by completing the Focus Area Approval Request Form. 
 





        
  General Education

    


The foundation of undergraduate education at the University is its general education program, with all students taking series of courses within specially designed categories. The general education program provides you with fundamental skills, broad knowledge, and approaches to intellectual inquiry that will benefit you regardless of your area of study.
Fundamental Studies
Fundamental Studies courses ensure that you have the basic skills in written and oral communication, in mathematical analysis and in critical thinking that are important to your success across the curriculum and in your career.
Distributive Studies
Distributive Studies courses expose you to a variety of disciplines even as you concentrate in your chosen field. They offer insights into the methods of different disciplines, the kinds of questions disciplines asks, and their standards for judging answers.
I-Series
I-Series courses speak to important issues that spark the imagination, demand intellect, and inspire innovation. They challenge you to wrestle with big question, and examine the ways that different disciplines address them.
Diversity
Diversity courses investigate the complexities of human difference and commonality, emphasizing the promises and problems of plural societies and the challenges that must be addressed to achieve just, equitable, and productive societies. 
Learn more about the General Education Program at the University.








Learn more about 



Aoy Staples ’25 Turns Passion into Action With Congressional and International Policy Internships

                                                    Read More
                                            





Learn more about 



Doing Good with Audrey Awasom '18

                                                    Read More
                                            





Learn more about 



From Capstone to Career: Elise Johnson '19

                                                    Read More
                                            





        Explore all policy courses
      


        View plans of study and checklists
      


Our Faculty





Learn more about Susannah Washburn
Susannah Washburn
Clinical Professor; College Park Scholars Public Leadership Program Director; Senior Advisor, DGI
Susannah Washburn directs the College Park Scholars Public Leadership Program at the University of Maryland.
Areas of Interest


National service; nonprofit management; social entrepreneurship; experiential learning; leadership development

Read Full Bio







Learn more about Patricia Bory
Patricia Bory
Associate Clinical Professor; Equity Officer; Director, iGive Living-Learning Program
Patricia Bory is the Director of iGIVE, a living-learning program at the University of Maryland School of Public Policy where she uses applied learning practices to teach leadership, innovation, and social change to incoming students.
Areas of Interest


Read Full Bio







Learn more about M. Apolonia Calderon
M. Apolonia Calderon
Assistant Professor
Born and raised in the Rio Grande Valley, Apolonia Calderon earned both her Bachelors degree (2013) and Ph.D. (2018) in Political Science from Texas A&M University.
Areas of Interest


Public administration; public policy immigration; policy & enforcement; nonprofit & philanthropy; race & ethnic politics

Read Full Bio







Learn more about Jennifer Littlefield
Jennifer Littlefield
Lecturer; Director, Undergraduate Studies
Jennifer Littlefield is the director of undergraduate studies in the School of Public Policy.  She previously served as the director of the College Park Scholars Public Leadership Program and associate director of the Do Good Institute. Littlefield was involved with the Public Leadership Program 
Areas of Interest


Read Full Bio







Learn more about Nina Harris
Nina Harris
Associate Dean, Academic and Student Affairs
Nina Harris serves as the associate dean for academic and student affairs in the University of Maryland School of Public Policy.
Areas of Interest


Read Full Bio









Tuition & Fees
We are committed to making higher education accessible and affordable. Learn more.






Aid & Scholarships
See the financial aid and scholarships that are available to help fund your education. 






Connect with Us
Visit us on campus, on the road or online and find out more about the School.







Learn more about Interested in both a Bachelor's and Master's degree?


Interested in both a Bachelor's and Master's degree?
Earn your Bachelor's and Master's degree in Public Policy in as few as five years with our dual Bachelor's/Master's program.

                                                    Learn More
                                            






















Thurgood Marshall Hall
7805 Regents Drive
College Park, MD 20742
Phone: 301-405-6330




Facebook




Twitter




Instagram




Youtube




Linkedin




Flickr









        © 2024
        UMD School of Public Policy
UMD School of Public Policy



Directions & Parking
Directory
Web Accessibility
Privacy Policy



















