







Prospective Students - UMD Physics


























































Search ...  
















Physics
UMD
Directory



 













UMD_CMNS_Physics_S1_CMYK












                                        Home                





                                        About Us                








                                        Physics Administration                





                                        Directions                





                                        Awards                





                                        Student Awards                 





                                        Make a Donation                





                                        News                








                                        Research News                





                                        Department News                





                                        Newsletters                









                                        Contact Us                









                                        People                








                                        All                





                                        Faculty                








                                        Current                





                                        Emeritus                





                                        Adjunct                





                                        Affiliate                





                                        Research Professors                









                                        Research Scientists                





                                        Postdocs                





                                        Staff                





                                        Lecturers                





                                        Visitors                





                                        Graduate Students                









                                        Research                








                                        Research Areas                








                                        Astro Metrology                





                                        Atomic, Molecular & Optical                





                                        Biophysics                





                                        Chemical Physics                





                                        Condensed Matter Experiment                





                                        Condensed Matter Theory                





                                        Cosmic Ray Physics                





                                        Elementary Particles                





                                        Gravitation Experiment                





                                        Gravitational Theory                





                                        High Energy Physics                





                                        Nonlinear Dynamics, Chaos and Complex Systems                





                                        Nuclear Physics                





                                        Particle Astrophysics                





                                        Physics Education Research                





                                        Plasma Physics                





                                        Plasma Theory                





                                        Quantum Science and Technology                





                                        Quarks, Hadrons and Nuclei                





                                        Space Physics                









                                        Centers & Institutes                









                                        Academics                








                                        OSES Home (Student Services)                





                                        OSES News                





                                        Undergraduate Program                








                                        Prospective Students                





                                        Apply Now                





                                        Degree Requirements and Policies                





                                        Scholarships                





                                        Undergraduate Research                





                                        Advising                





                                        Undergraduate Forms                





                                        Undergraduate Events                





                                        Departmental Honors                





                                        Society of Physics Students                





                                        FAQ                





                                        Undergraduate Student Committee                









                                        Graduate Program                








                                        Prospective Students                





                                        Open House                 





                                        Pathway to Physics PhD (P3)                





                                        Degree Requirements                





                                        Graduate Resources                





                                        Deadlines and Forms                





                                        PhD Defenses                








                                        PhD Defenses 2024                





                                        PhD Defenses 2023                





                                        PhD Defenses 2022                





                                        PhD Defenses 2021                





                                        PhD Defenses 2020                





                                        PhD Defenses 2019                





                                        PhD Defenses 2018                





                                        PhD Defenses 2017                





                                        PhD Defenses 2016                









                                        Events                





                                        Scholarships & Awards                





                                        Qualifier                





                                        Graduate Student Organizations                





                                        FAQ                









                                        Student Opportunities                








                                        GRAD-MAP                





                                        Graduate Student Organizations                





                                        Outreach Volunteering                





                                        Society of Physics Students                





                                        NSF S-STEM Program                





                                        Undergraduate Research                





                                        Women in Physics                





                                        Undergraduate Quantum Association                









                                        Courses                





                                        Academic Support                





                                        NSF S-STEM Program                





                                        Teaching Assistants                





                                        Where's my TA?                









                                        Events                








                                        Calendar                





                                        Physics Colloquia                





                                        Event Submission                





                                        W.J. Carr Lecture                





                                        Research Interaction Team (RIT) Math/Physics                





                                        Mechanick Quantum Biology Lecture                





                                        Irving and Renee Milchberg Endowed Lectureship                





                                        Charles W. Misner Endowed Lectureship in Gravitational Physics                





                                        John S. Toll Endowed Lecture                





                                        Prange Prize Lecture                





                                        Maryland Day                





                                        Outreach                








                                        Outreach Home                





                                        Physics is Phun                





                                        Discovery Days                









                                        Summer Programs                








                                        Physics Makers Camp                





                                        Physics of Quidditch                





                                        Science Discovery Camp                





                                        Advanced Summer Girls Program                





                                        PROPEL                





                                        Toolkit for Success                









                                        CU2MiP                





                                        CUWiP                





                                        Vortex Makerspace                









                                        Services                








                                        Climate Committee                





                                        Computing Services                





                                        Electronic and Mechanical Development                 





                                        Hiring Procedures                





                                        Lecture Demo                





                                        Mental Health Resources                





                                        Physics Ombudspersons                





                                        Printing Services                








                                        Poster Print Request                









                                        Proposal Submissions                





                                        Purchase Order                





                                        Room Reservation                





                                        Suggestion Box                





                                        Textbook Order Form                






 























 Prospective Students


 Undergraduate students wishing to study Physics at the University of Maryland must first apply to and be accepted by the university. For more information about applying to UMD, visit the Office of Undergraduate Admissions website. Students who are interested in learning more about the Physics major are welcome to contact the department to schedule a visit and talk with an academic advisor. To schedule a visit, or a zoom session with an advisor, please email This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it.! Prospective graduate students should visit the page for Graduate Prospective Students. About Our Undergraduate ProgramFor information on the degree requirements for the Physics major, view our Degree Requirements. Prospective Student FAQsIf your question is not answered in the information below, feel free to contact an academic advisor at This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it..       Why study physics at UMD?    Why study physics at UMD? The University of Maryland offers unique opportunities and advantages for students interested in studying physics. Students receive the benefits of attending a large school, including access to a variety of research opportunities and subdisciplines, amplified by the university's geographic location. As the only public research university inside the Washington, DC beltway, students have the opportunity to do research with collaborators at nearby national institutions, including the National Institute of Standards and Technology, NASA Goddard Space Flight Center and US Army Research Laboratory. If you're interested in studying physics, UMD is a special place to do it!      How many Physics majors are there at UMD?    How many Physics majors are there at UMD? There are approximately 350 Physics majors enrolled at the university. Physics majors typically enjoy small class sizes and lectures set in classrooms, not large lecture halls, taught exclusively by professors, not TAs.       What classes will I need to take for the Physics major? How long does it take to graduate?    What classes will I need to take for the Physics major? How long does it take to graduate? A list of courses and a sample graduation plan can both be found here. The program is designed to allow most students to graduate in no more than four years, provided they enter the university prepared to take Calculus 1 in their first semester.        How does Advanced Placement and International Baccalaureate credit apply for Physics majors?    How does Advanced Placement and International Baccalaureate credit apply for Physics majors? Advanced Placement credit applies towards required Physics major courses as follows:  AP Calculus AB - score of 4 or 5 = MATH140 (Calculus 1) AP Calculus BC - AB subscore of 4 or 5 = MATH140 (Calculus 1) AP Calculus BC - score of 4 or 5 = MATH141 (Calculus 2) AP Physics C Mechanics - score of 4 or 5 = PHYS171 (Introductory Physics 1: Mechanics & Relativity) AP Physics C Electricity & Magnetism - score of  5 = PHYS272 (Introductory Physics 2: Fields)*  *Students who earn AP credit for PHYS272 may still be advised to take the course at UMD. Students will be able to discuss these options with their academic advisor when they register for their first semester of courses during summer orientation. AP Physics 1 and 2 and IB Physics HL will count for elective credit for Physics majors.  For a full list of how AP and IB courses transfer to the university, visit the Transfer Credit Services website.       What are the opportunities for undergraduate research?    What are the opportunities for undergraduate research? We strongly encourage all Physics majors to get involved in research early during their time in the department. The best way to learn what it's like to be a professional physicist is to get in the lab! We hold an annual Undergraduate Research Fair in the fall, where professors present on their research and offer students a chance to learn more and discuss opportunities for long-term lab positions. Students can also participate in research for credit, as approved by the sponsoring professor and their advisor.      What opportunities are available for Physics majors after graduation?    What opportunities are available for Physics majors after graduation? Many of our Physics majors will go on to graduate school, most frequently in Physics but also in related fields like astronomy, geophysics, atmospheric and oceanic science, and engineering. Of graduates who go on to work immediately after graduation, nationally roughly two-thirds of students work in the private sector, while others teach high school, work for the government (including in national laboratories), and join the military. More information is avaialble from the American Institute of Physics.       How can students get involved in the department?    How can students get involved in the department? The Physics Department organizes a wide variety of events designed to immerse students in the research, culture, and community of the department. These include Maryland Day, the All-Majors Meeting, the Undergraduate Research Fair, and the Undergraduate Research Showcase. Click here for more information about events.    












OSES Home (Student Services)OSES NewsUndergraduate ProgramProspective StudentsApply NowDegree Requirements and PoliciesScholarshipsUndergraduate ResearchAdvisingUndergraduate FormsUndergraduate EventsDepartmental HonorsSociety of Physics StudentsFAQUndergraduate Student CommitteeGraduate ProgramStudent OpportunitiesCoursesAcademic SupportNSF S-STEM ProgramTeaching AssistantsWhere's my TA?



















College and University Links 


UMD_CMNS_Physics_P1_CMYK_W
 
UMD-Primary-Logo-White








Department of Physics 


University of MarylandCollege Park, MD 20742-4111Phone: 301.405.3401Fax: 301.314.9525
UMD_CMNS_Physics_S1_CMYK_W
Questions or Comments?Please contact us using this form.








Information 



Campus Directory
Scholarship Opportunities
Undergraduate Research Opportunities
Prospective Undergraduates
Interactive Campus Map
Metrorail Map
UMShuttle Routes
Make a Donation 
Web Accessibility













Department of Physics - University of Maryland - College Park, MD 20742 










