












History and Theory of Architecture Minor | School of Architecture, Planning & Preservation




















      Skip to main content
    






















Search




Menu




Programs



Architecture




Urban Studies and Planning




Historic Preservation




Real Estate Development




PhD




Interdisciplinary Dual Degrees







Academics



Admissions




Degrees




Courses




Awards & Competitions




Education Abroad




Summer Programs




Accreditation




Partnership for Action Learning in Sustainability (PALS)







Research, Projects & Creative Practice



Research




Centers




Projects




Exhibitions




Special Projects




Publications







About



History




Mission | Vision | Values




Justice, Equity, Diversity and Inclusion (JEDI)




Dean's Welcome




Location




Contact Us




FAQ







People



Faculty




Staff




Lecturers




Alumni




Emeriti




In Memoriam







Resources



Calendar




Galleries




Libraries




Student Resources




School Resources




Career Services




Alumni Resources




Prospective Students











Discover Your Education


Apply


Visit


Giving


News & Events


Calendar






Close Search


Search


Search










Maryland's built environment school



In This Section


Degrees



























Breadcrumb


Home


Programs


Architecture


Architecture Academics


Architecture Degrees


                  History and Theory of Architecture Minor
              




History and Theory of Architecture Minor



 






Image
 





A minor in history and theory of architecture will provide students who have an interest in architectural history the opportunity to develop an understanding and appreciation of architecture as a basic component of human society. Students will gain an insight of diverse architectural cultures as well as apply diverse research methods in order to understand architectural phenomena in a broad context. The History and Theory of Architecture minor is ideal for students in Architecture and Art History. Students in other majors will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
From its roots in art history and archeology, architectural history has evolved into a dynamic and polyvalent discipline that overlaps with urban and social history, cultural studies, geography, and landscape studies. It provides frameworks for understanding the built environment: how it has been shaped over time, and how it actively shapes cultures and societies.
With a minor in architectural history and theory, you will learn to think like historians as well as architects. You will learn rigorous methods of historical inquiry and design research, from formal analysis of style to cross-cultural comparison, which will allow you to both understand design as a process and the complex relationship between architecture and culture. You will be able to choose from a wide range of courses focusing on different parts of the world (United States, Europe, Middle East/North Africa, Latin America). Many courses have a thematic focus and are cross-cultural in scope. Such themes include urbanism and urban process; building cultures and practices; adaptation and change over time; monuments and memory; and architectures of oppression, resistance, and coexistence. Some courses are offered abroad, where you will apply the skills of analysis and interpretation of historic buildings on site.
As a Minor in the History and Theory of Architecture, you will apply the tools and perspectives of “design thinking” to historical architecture, from description to sketching, diagramming and digital modeling. This will not only hone your skills as a designer by helping you analyze precedents and mine the past for ideas, but also prepare you for careers in historic preservation or teaching the history of architecture.
 
Questions? Contact Assistant Professor Joseph Williams at jcwillia@umd.edu.
 









APPLY









Admissions








Curriculum






 History and Theory of Architecture Minor List of Courses









































































University of MarylandSchool of Architecture, Planning and Preservation
3835 Campus Drive  /  College Park, MD 20742
301.405.8000  / archinfo@umd.edu





CTA menu




Discover


Apply


Giving











































Footer menu




Visit


Web Accessibility


Privacy Policy


UMD.edu


©2020





















