







Office of Undergraduate Admissions | Counselors & Advisors





































Skip to main content










Undergraduate  Admissions




















Visit UMD





Apply Now





Connect





Search







Academics 







All Programs


Colleges & Schools




Limited Enrollment Programs




LEP Admission for Current Students







        Want more information about our majors?
      

        Academics
      






Student Life






        Want to learn more about life as a Terp?
      

        Student Life
      



Housing & Dining


Student Support & Safety


Get Involved on Campus


Find Your Community







How To Apply







Freshman Applicants


Transfer Applicants




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program




Maryland Transfer Advantage Program FAQs






International Applicants




English Language Proficiency
Obtaining a Visa
Financial Certification




Shady Grove Applicants




Shady Grove Terp Transfer Partnership






Application Deadlines


Admission Review Process & Factors


Application FAQs




Freshman Application FAQs
Transfer Application FAQ
Essay Questions
Submitting Documents







        Ready to apply?
      

        How to Apply
      






Tuition & Aid






        Need more information on cost of attendance at UMD,  financing your education and merit scholarships?
      

        Tuition & Aid
      



Cost of Attendance


Freshman Merit Scholarships


Transfer Merit Scholarships




Frederick Douglass Scholarship




Office of Student Financial Aid



























            Counselors & Advisors
          

We're grateful for all of the support high school counselors and college advisors provide our prospective Terps. We hope the resources on this page help you in guiding your students through the application and admission process.








Home

        Counselors & Advisors
      








      WITH YOU IN MIND
    





We've compiled the resources below specifically with the role of counselors/advisors in mind. However, if the information you're looking for is not included, please feel free to reach out to one of our admission representatives for assistance.














      Application Resources
    

To help you and your students navigate the college application process, we've pulled together a few resources we think will be especially useful. 
For information on application requirements, deadlines and a checklist of required materials, please explore our How to Apply section.


Explore How to Apply
Explore How to Apply












      Common App Resources
    

Freshman students can apply using the Common App. We encourage you to access Common App's free toolkit, support, and training resources as you help students and families with platform.


Get Started with Common App
Learn more about Common App Resources






      StandOut Admissions Network Resources
    

Transfer students can only apply using the StandOut Admissions Network. Freshman students can choose to apply using this platform as well. We encourage you to take advantage of the free tutorials and help articles available as you help students and families with platform.


Get Started with StandOut
Learn more about StandOut Admissions Network resources






      Submitting Documents for Your Students
    

Letters of recommendation and official transcripts can be required to complete a student's application. Take advantage of this resource to feel confident about how to submit these documents when your students request them.


Learn How to Submit Application Materials
Learn How to Submit Application Materials












              Financial Resources
            

Money is a sensitive topic for many students and their families. Take advantage of these resources during conversations about financing a higher education.





      Financial Aid
    

UMD offers an array of financial aid as part of its commitment to making an excellent education affordable. 
Students must complete the FAFSA to qualify for financial aid at UMD. The University of Maryland, College Park school code is 002103.


Learn About UMD's Financial Aid Process
Learn About UMD's Financial Aid Process






      Fee Waivers
    

UMD follows the fee waiver criteria established by the application platform by which the applicant is applying. However, there is additional criteria that will be considered for waiving the application fee.


Learn About Fee Waivers
Learn more about fee waivers






      Financial Certification
    

Students who hold or intend to seek an F-1 Student or J-1 Exchange Visitor visa to study in the United States must provide bank statements that demonstrate sufficient funds to cover these expenses.


Learn About Financial Certification
Learn more about financial certification






Learn About Tuition & Aid at UMD
Visit UMD's Tuition & financial aid page.












              Academic Resources
            

To help students visualize and plan for their college years, we encourage you to share the following resources.













      Majors & Limited Enrollment Programs
    

With 100+ majors available, students can explore all their interests to find a career they're passionate about. Some majors are considered Limited Enrollment Programs (LEP) and have more competitive admission criteria beyond the university’s general requirements. 









      General Education Program & Four Year Plans
    

UMD's general education program gives students the opportunity to explore the exciting and expansive range of courses. These courses will expand students’ program of study, challenge their preconceptions and broaden their worldview. Courses emphasize rigor, innovation and creative thinking. Students are encouraged to consider diversity in all its forms and to enhance their learning beyond the classroom, through study abroad, internships, research or other special experiences.
The Student Academic Success-Degree Completion Policy promotes undergraduate student success by establishing a structured framework and criteria to guide all students to completion of an undergraduate degree within a reasonable period of time. The university has created 4-year plans and benchmarks for each academic major to keep students on track toward degree completion throughout their academic careers.









      Transfer Credit Services
    

Transfer Credit Services facilitates the evaluation of credit for new students who have earned college credit from another institution or have successfully completed Advanced Placement (AP), International Baccalaureate (IB) or A/AS level examinations. The Transfer Course Database can be used to look up transfer course equivalencies. Admitted students who have earned college credit in the U.S. may access their preliminary transfer credit evaluation online within three weeks of receiving their offer of admission. To ensure we have an updated record, admitted students should submit a final official transcript as soon as it becomes available.




















      Pre-Transfer Advising
    

The Pre-Transfer Advising program provides support to prospective transfer students from two- and four-year schools before they apply to UMD. Students are encouraged to use pre-transfer advising services to assess their readiness to transfer and estimate their time to degree completion.


Learn About Pre-Transfer Advising
Learn About Pre-Transfer Advising



























        VISIT UMD
      

Your student(s) can only learn so much about a school from a website. We encourage them to see campus for themselves! Throughout the year we offer a variety of information sessions and tours.


Explore Our Calendar
Review our calendar of upcoming tours and information sessions.




        GET IN TOUCH
      

If you can't seem to find answers to your questions, feel free to reach out to the admission representative for your area! We're happy to help.


Meet Our Admission Reps
Get connected to the admission representative for your area.

















      There is a lot more to learn about UMD, so let's stay in touch!
    






Join Our Mailing List







Connect

















              Undergraduate Admissions
            

                  Mitchell Building
                

                  7999 Regents Dr.
                

                  College Park, MD 20742
                


1-800-422-5867
ApplyMaryland@umd.edu



























Majors & Minors


Student Life


Admissions Requirements


Application Deadlines
Application Deadlines


Tuition & Aid




              Information For:
            

Prospective Students


Parents & Families


Counselors & Advisors
Counselors & Advisors


Admitted Students










Visit UMD






Apply Now






Connect









umd.edu


Privacy Policy


Web Accessibility


        © 2023 UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND
      









